Chapter 18: Concepts of Care for Patients With Hypersensitivity (Allergy) and
Autoimmunity
Ignatavicius: Medical-Surgical Nursing, 10th Edition
MULTIPLE CHOICE

1. A nurse is teaching the client with systemic lupus erythematosus about prednisone. What information is the priority?  A nurse is teaching the client with systemic lupus erythematosus about prednisone. What information is the priority? 
a. Might make the client feel jittery or nervous.
b. Can cause sodium and fluid retention.
c. Long-term effects include fat redistribution.
d. Never stop prednisone abruptly.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The nurse teaches the client to avoid stopping the drug abruptly as the priority because this 
can lead to a life-threatening adrenal crisis. Short-term side effects do include jitteriness or nervousness, sodium and wate
r retention. One long-term side effect is fat redistribution
resulting in moon face? and buffalo hump.?
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: SLE, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

2. The nurse is caring for clients on the medical-surgical unit. What action by the nurse will help prevent a client from having a type II hypersensitivity reaction? The nurse is caring for clients on the medical-surgical unit. What action by the nurse will help prevent a client from having a type II hypersensitivity reaction?
a. Administering steroids for a positive TB test
b. Correctly identifying the client prior to a blood transfusion
c. Keeping the client free of t
he offending agent
d. Providing a latex-free environment for the client

[ANS : REMOVED]

A classic example of a type II h
ypersensitivity reaction is a blood transfusion reaction. These
can be prevented by correctly identifying the client and cross-checking the unit of blood to be 
administered. A positive type IV response is a positive TB test. Avoidance therapy is the cornerstone of treatment for a type IV hypersensitivity to substances that are known and can be avoided such as poison ivy and insect stings. Latex allergies are a type I hypersensitivity.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Hypersensitivities, Immun
ity
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Safety and Infection Control 

3. A client has been newly diagnosed with systemic lupus erythematosus and is reviewing self-care measures with the nurse. Which statement by the client indicates a need to review the material? A client has been newly diagnosed with systemic lupus erythematosus and is reviewing self-care measures with the nurse. Which statement by the client indicates a need to review the material?
a. I will avoid direct sunlight as much as possible.?
b. Baby powder is good for the constant sweating.?
c. Grouping errands will help prevent fatigue.?
d. Rest time will have to become a priority.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Constant sweating is not a sign of SLE and powders are drying so they should not be used, at least not in excess. The client is correct in stating he/she s
 hould avoid direct sunlight, that
grouping errands can prevent or reduce fatigue, and that rest will have to become a priority.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: SLE, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

4. A client calls the clinic to report exposure to poison ivy and an itchy rash that is not helped  A client calls the clinic to report exposure to poison ivy and an itchy rash that is not helped 
with over-the-counter antihistamines. What response by the nurse is most appropriate?
a. Antihistamines do not hel
p poison ivy.?
b. There are different antihistamines to try.?
c. You should be seen in the clinic right away.?
d. You will need to take some IV steroids.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Since histamine is not the mediator of a type IV reaction such as with poison ivy, antihistamines will not provide relief. The nurse would educate the client about this. The client does not need to be seen right away. The client may or may not need steroids; they may be given either IV or orally. 
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Communication and Documentation
KEY: Hypersensitivities, Immunity
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Pharm
 acological and Parenteral Therapies

5. A nurse has educated a client on a A nurse has educated a client on a
n epinephrine autoinjector. What statement by the client
indicates additional instruction is needed?
a. I dont need to go to the hospital after using it.?
b. I must carry two autoinjectors with me at all times.?
c. I will write the expiration date on my calendar.?
d. This can be injected right through my clothes.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Clients would be instructed to call 911 and go to the hospital for monitoring after using the autoinjector. The medication may wear off before the off
 ending agent has cleared the clients
system. The other statements show good understanding of this treatment.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Evaluation
KEY: Allergic response, Drug therapy
MSC: Client Needs Category: Health Promotion and Maintenance

6. A nurse has presented an educational program to a community group on Lyme disease. What  A nurse has presented an educational program to a community group on Lyme disease. What 
statement by a participant indicates the need to review the material?
a. I should take precautions ag
ainst ticks, especially in the summer.?
b. A red rash that looks like a bulls-eye may be one of the symptoms.?
c. If Lyme disease is not treated successfully, it is usual
 ly fatal.?
d. For Stage I disease, antibiotics are usually needed for 14 to 21 days.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Untreated Lyme disease can lead to chronic complications, or Stage III Lyme disease, such as arthritis, chronic fatigue, memory/thinking problems. It is
 not usually a fatal disease so this
information would need to be corrected by the nurse. The other participant statements are correct.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Lyme disease, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Health Promotion and Maintenance

7. A client is in the hospital and has received two doses of an angiotensin-converting enzyme for hypertension. When the nurse a A client is in the hospital and has received two doses of an angiotensin-converting enzyme for hypertension. When the nurse a
nswers the clients call light, the client presents an appearance
as shown below:
What action by the nurse takes is most appropriate?
a. Administer epinephrine 1:1000, 0.3 mg IV push immediately.
b. Apply oxygen by facemask at 100% and a pulse oximeter.
c. Ensure a patent airway while calling the Rapid Response Team.
d. Reassure the client that these symptoms will go away.

[ANS : REMOVED]

This client has angioedema which is a severe type I hypersensitivity reaction and is most commonly caused by ACE-inhibitors. The nurse would ensure the clients airway is patent and either call the Rapid Response Team or delegate this t
 o someone else. Epinephrine needs
to be administered right away, but not without a prescription by the primary health care provider unless standing orders exist. The client may need oxygen, but a patent airway comes first. Reassurance is important, but airway and calling the Rapid Response Team are the 
priorities.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Rapid Response Team, Critical rescue
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation
MULTIPLE RESPONSE

1. The nurse is studying hypersensitivity reactions. Which reactions are correctly matched with their hypersensitivity types? ( Select all that apply. ) The nurse is studying hypersensitivity reactions. Which reactions are correctly matched with their hypersensitivity types? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Type I examples include hay fever and anaphylaxis.
b. Type II mediated by action of immunoglobulin M (IgM).
c. Type III immune complex deposits in blood vessel walls.
d. Type IV examples are poison ivy and transplant rejection.
e. Type IV involve both ant
ibodies and complement.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Type I reactions are mediated by immunoglobulin E (IgE) and include hay fever, anaphylaxis, and allergic asthma. Type III re
actions consist of immune complexes that form and deposit in
the walls of blood vessels. Type IV reactions include responses to poison ivy exposure, positive tuberculosis tests, and graft rejection. Type II re
 actions are mediated by
immunoglobulin G, not IgM. Type IV hypersensitivity reactions do not involve either antibodies or complement.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Hypersensitivities, Immunity
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

2. The nurse is assessing a client for signs and symptoms of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Which of the following w The nurse is assessing a client for signs and symptoms of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Which of the following w
ould be consistent with this disorder? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Discoid rash on skin exposed to sunlight
b. Urinalysis positive for casts and protein
c. Painful, deformed small joints
d. Pain on inspiration
e. Thrombocytosis
f. Serum positive for antinuclear antibodies (ANA)

[ANS : REMOVED]

Signs and symptoms of SLE include (but are not limited t
 o) a discoid rash on skin exposed to
the sun, urinalysis with casts and protein, pleurisy as manifested by pain on inspiration, and positive ANA titers in the bloo
d. Nonerosive arthritis in peripheral joints can occur but does
not lead to deformity. Thrombocytopenia is another sign.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: SLE, Assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

3. A client is being administered the first dose of belimumab for a systemic lupus erythematosus flare. What actions by the nurse are most appropriate? ( Select all that apply. ) a. Observe the client for at least 2 hours afterward. A client is being administered the first dose of belimumab for a systemic lupus erythematosus flare. What actions by the nurse are most appropriate? ( Select all that apply. ) a. Observe the client for at least 2 hours afterward.
b. Instruct the client about the monthly infusion schedule.
c. Inform the client not to drive or sign legal papers for 24 hours.
d. Ensure emergency equipment is working and nearby.
e. Make a follow-up appointment for a lipid panel in 2 months.
f. Instruct the client to hold other medications for 72 hours.

[ANS : REMOVED]

This drug is a monoclonal antibody to tumor necrosis factor. The first dose would be administered in a place where severe allergic reactions an
 d/or anaphylaxis can be managed.
This includes having emergency equipment nearby. The client would be observed for at least 2 hours after this first dose. This drug does not cause drowsiness, so there would be no restrictions on driving or signing legal documents. Elevated lipids are not associated with this 
drug. This drug is used in combination with other therapies, especially during a flare.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: SLE, Drug therapy
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Safety and Infection Control 4. A nurse caring for clients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) plans care understanding 
the most common causes of death for these clients is which of the following? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Infection
b. Cardiovascular impairment
c. Vasculitis
d. Chronic kidney disease
e. Liver failure
f. Blood dyscrasias

[ANS : REMOVED]

Any and all organs and tissues may be affected in SLE but the most common causes of death 
in clients with SLE include cardiovascular impairment and chronic kidney disease.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Planning
KEY: SLE, Complications
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation
