Chapter 25: Concepts of Care for Patients Requiring Oxygen Therapy or
Tracheostomy
Ignatavicius: Medical-Surgical Nursing, 10th Edition
MULTIPLE CHOICE

1. A nurse caring for a client removes the clients oxygen as prescribed. The client is now breathing what percentage of oxygen in the room air? A nurse caring for a client removes the clients oxygen as prescribed. The client is now breathing what percentage of oxygen in the room air?
a. 14%
b. 21%
c. 28%
d. 31%

[ANS : REMOVED]

Oxygen content of atmospheric or room air? is about 21%.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Oxygen, Physiology
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physio
 logical Adaptation

2. A client is scheduled to have a A client is scheduled to have a
tracheostomy placed in an hour. What action by the nurse is
the priority?
a. Administer prescribed anxiolytic medication.
b. Ensure that informed consent is on the chart.
c. Reinforce any teaching done previously.
d. Start the preoperative antibiotic infusion.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Since this is an operative procedure, the client must sign an informed consent, which must be on the chart. Giving anxiolytics and antibiotics and reinf
 orcing teaching may also be required
but do not take priority.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Communication and Documentation
KEY: Informed consent, Autonomy
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care 3. A client has a tracheostomy that is 3 days old. Upon assessment, the nurse notes that the 
clients face is puffy and the eyelids are swollen. What action by the nurse takes best?
a. Assess the clients oxygen saturation.
b. Notify the Rapid Response Team.
c. Oxygenate the client with a bag-valve-mask.
d. Palpate the skin of the upper chest.

[ANS : REMOVED]

This client may have subcutaneous emphysema, which is a
 ir that leaks into the tissues
surrounding the tracheostomy. The nurse would first assess the clients oxygen saturation and other indicators of oxygenation. If the client is stable, the nurse can palpate the skin of the upper chest to feel for the air. If the client is unstable, the nurse calls the Rapid Response 
Team. Using a bag-valve-mask device may or may not be appropriate for the unstable client.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Oxygenation, Tracheostomy, Nursing assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Enviro
 nment: Management of Care

4. A client has a tracheostomy tu A client has a tracheostomy tu
be in place. When the nurse suctions the client, food particles
are noted. What action by the nurse is best?
a. Elevate the head of the clients bed.
b. Measure and compare cuff pressures.
c. Place the client on NPO status.
d. Request that the client have a swallow study.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Constant pressure from the tracheostomy tube cuff can cause tracheomalacia, leading to dilation of the tracheal passage. This can be manifested b
 y food particles seen in secretions or
by noting that larger and larger amounts of pressure are needed to keep the tracheostomy cuff inflated. The nurse would mea
sure the pressures and compare them to previous ones to detect
a trend. Elevating the head of the bed, placing the client on NPO status, and requesting a 
swallow study will not correct this situation.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Tracheostomy, Client safety
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

5. An assistive personnel (AP) was feeding a client with a tracheostomy. Later that evening, the UAP reports that the client had a coughing spell during t An assistive personnel (AP) was feeding a client with a tracheostomy. Later that evening, the UAP reports that the client had a coughing spell during t
 he meal. What action by the nurse is
best?
a. Assess the clients lung sounds.
b. Assign a different AP to the client.
c. Report the AP to the manager.
d. Request thicker liquids for me
als.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The best action is to check the clients oxygenation because he or she may have aspirated.
Once the client has been assess
ed, the nurse would notify the primary health care provider of
possible aspiration and would consult with the registered dietitian about appropriately thickened liquids. The UAP should have reported the inc
 ident immediately, but addressing
that issue is not the immediate priority.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Aspiration, Tracheostomy
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential 6. A nurse is providing tracheostomy care. What action by the nurse requires intervention by 
the charge nurse?
a. Holding the device securel
y when changing ties
b. Suctioning the client first if secretions are present
c. Tying a square knot at the back of the neck
d. Using half-strength peroxide for cleansing

[ANS : REMOVED]

To prevent pressure injuries and for client safety, when ties are used that must be knotted, the knot would be placed at the side of the clients neck, not in back. The other actions are appropriate.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Communicat
 ion and Documentation
KEY: Tracheostomy care, Client safety
MSC: Client Needs Category: Saf
e and Effective Care Environment: Safety and Infection Control

7. A nurse is demonstrating suctioning a tracheostomy during the annual skills review. What action by the student demonstrates that more teaching is needed? A nurse is demonstrating suctioning a tracheostomy during the annual skills review. What action by the student demonstrates that more teaching is needed?
a. Applying suction while inserting the catheter
b. Preoxygenating the client prior to suctioning
c. Suctioning for a total of three times if needed
d. Suctioning for only 10 to 15 s
econds each time

[ANS : REMOVED]

Suction would only be applied while withdrawing the catheter. The other actions are appropriate.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated
 Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Tracheostomy, Suctioning
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential 

8. A nurse is caring for a client using oxygen while in the hospital. What assessment finding indicates that outcomes for client safety with oxygen therapy are being met? A nurse is caring for a client using oxygen while in the hospital. What assessment finding indicates that outcomes for client safety with oxygen therapy are being met?
a. 100% of meals being eaten by the client
b. Intact skin behind the ears
c. The client understanding the need for oxygen
d. Unchanged weight for the pa
st 3 days

[ANS : REMOVED]

Oxygen tubing can cause pressure injuries, so clients using oxygen have a high risk of skin breakdown. Intact skin behind
the ears indicates that goals for maintaining client safety with
oxygen therapy are being met. Nutrition and weight are not related to using oxygen.
Understanding the need for oxygen is important but would not take priority over a physical problem.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Evaluation
KEY: Oxygen therapy, Skin integrity
MSC: Client Needs Category: Ph
ysiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential

9. A nurse is assessing a client who has a tracheostomy. Th A nurse is assessing a client who has a tracheostomy. Th
 e nurse notes that the tracheostomy
tube is pulsing with the heartbeat as the clients pulse is being taken. No other abnormal findings are noted. What action by the nurse is most appropriate?
a. Call the operating room to inform them of a pending emergency case.
b. No action is needed at this time; this is a normal finding in some clients.
c. Remove the tracheostomy tu
be; ventilate the client with a bag-valve-mask.
d. Stay with the client and have someone else call the primary health care provider immediately.

[ANS : REMOVED]

This client may have a tracheoinnominate artery fistula, which can be a life-threatening emergency if the artery is breached and the client begins
 to hemorrhage. Since no bleeding is
yet present, the nurse stays with the client and asks someone else to notify the primary health care provider. If the client begins hemorrhaging, the nurse removes the tracheostomy and applies pressure at the bleeding site. The client will need to be prepared for surgery.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Tracheostomy, Medical emergencies
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

10. A client with a new tracheostom A client with a new tracheostom
y is being seen in the oncology clinic. What finding by the
nurse best indicates that goals for the clients decrease in self-esteem are being met?
a. The client demonstrates good understanding of stoma care.
b. The client has joined a book club that meets at the library.
c. Family members take turns assisting with stoma care.
d. Skin around the stoma is intact without signs of infection.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The client joining a book club that meets outside the home and requires him or her to go out in public is the best sign that goals for disrupted self-esteem are being met. The other findings 
are all positive signs but do not relate to this client problem.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Evaluation
KEY: Tracheostomy, Psychosocial response
MSC: Client Needs Category: Psychosocial Integrity

11. A client is receiving oxygen at 4 L per nasal cannula. What comfort measure may the nurse  A client is receiving oxygen at 4 L per nasal cannula. What comfort measure may the nurse 
delegate to assistive personnel (AP)?
a. Apply water-soluble ointment to nares and lips.
b. Periodically turn the oxygen down or off.
c. Replaces the oxygen tubing with a different type.
d. Turn the client every 2 hours or as needed.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Oxygen can be drying, so the UAP can apply water-solub
 le lubricant to the clients lips and
nares. The AP would not adjust the oxygen flow rate or replace the tubing. Turning the client is not related to comfort measures for oxygen.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Communication and Documentation
KEY: Oxygen, Comfort measures, Delegation
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Basic Care and Comfort

12. A client is wearing a Venturi mask to deliver oxygen and the dinner tray has arrived. What action by the nurse is best? A client is wearing a Venturi mask to deliver oxygen and the dinner tray has arrived. What action by the nurse is best?
a. Assess the clients oxygen saturation and, if normal, turn off the oxygen.
b. Determine if the client can switch to a nasal cannula d
 uring the meal.
c. Have the client lift the mask off the face when taking bites of food.
d. Turn the oxygen off while the client eats the meal and then restart it.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Oxygen is a drug that needs to be delivered constantly. The nurse would determine if the primary health care provider has approved switching to a
 nasal cannula during meals. If not,
the nurse would consult with the primary health care provider about this issue. The primary health care provider would need to prescribe discontinuing oxygen if the clients oxygen saturation is normal. The oxygen would not be turned off. Lifting the mask to eat will alter the 
FiO2 delivered.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Oxygen therapy, Oxygen
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies 13. The nurse assesses the client using the device pictured below to deliver 50% O2: 
The nurse finds that the mask fits snugly, the skin under the mask and straps is intact, and the flow rate of the oxygen is 3 L/min. What action by the nur
 se is best?
a. Assess the clients oxygen saturation.
b. Document these findings in the chart.
c. Immediately increase the flow rate.
d. Turn the flow rate down to 2 L/min.

[ANS : REMOVED]

For the venturi mask to deliver high flow of oxygen, the flow rate must be set correctly, 
usually between 4 and 10 L/min. The clients flow rate is too low and the nurse would increase it. After increasing the
flow rate, the nurse assesses the oxygen saturation and
documents the findings.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Oxygen therapy, Client safety
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Safety and Infection Control 
MULTIPLE RESPONSE

1. A home health nurse is visiting a new client who uses oxygen in the home. For which factors does the nurse assess when determining if the client is using the oxygen safely? ( Select all that apply. ) A home health nurse is visiting a new client who uses oxygen in the home. For which factors does the nurse assess when determining if the client is using the oxygen safely? ( Select all that apply. )
a. The client does not allow smoking in the house.
b. Electrical cords are in good working order.
c. Flammable liquids are stored in the garage.
d. Household light bulbs are the fluorescent type.
e. The client does not have pets inside the home.
f. No alcohol-based hand sanitizers are present.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Oxygen it enhances combustion, so precautions are needed whenever using it. The nurse 
would assess if the client allows smoking in the house, whether electrical cords are in good shape or are frayed, and if flam
mable liquids are stored (and used) in the garage away from
the oxygen. Light bulbs and pets are not related to oxygen safety. Alcohol-based hand sanitizers are permitted.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Oxygen therapy, Home safety
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Safety and Infection Control 2. A nurse is caring for a client who has a tracheostomy tube. What actions may the nurse delegate to assistive personnel (AP)? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Applying water-soluble lip balm to the clients lips
b. Ensuring that the humidific
ation provided is adequate
c. Performing oral care with alcohol-based mouthwash
d. Reminding the client to cough and deep breathe often
e. Suctioning excess secretions through the tracheostomy
f. Holding the new tracheostomy tube while the RN changes the ties

[ANS : REMOVED]

The AP can perform hygiene measures such as applying lip balm and reinforce teaching such as reminding the client to perform coughing and deep-breathing exercises. Oral care can be accomplished with normal saline, not products that dry the
 mouth. Ensuring that the humidity
is adequate and suctioning through the tracheostomy are nursing functions. When needed, a second licensed person assists w
ith holding the tracheostomy tube during tie changes; some
hospitals require a second licensed person during the first 72 hours after placement.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Communication and Documentation
KEY: Tracheostomy, Delegation
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care 

3. A client is being discharged home after having a tracheostomy placed. What suggestions does the nurse offer to help the client maintain self-esteem? ( Select all that apply. ) a. Create a communication system. A client is being discharged home after having a tracheostomy placed. What suggestions does the nurse offer to help the client maintain self-esteem? ( Select all that apply. ) a. Create a communication system.
b. Dont go out in public alone.
c. Find hobbies to enjoy at home.
d. Try loose-fitting shirts with collars.
e. Wear fashionable scarves.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The client with a tracheostomy may be shy and hesitant to go out in public. The client needs to have a sound communication method to ease frustration. T
he nurse can also suggest ways
of enhancing appearance so the client is willing to leave the house. These can include wearing scarves and loose-fitting shirts to hide the stoma. Keeping the client homebound is not good advice.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Caring
KEY: Tracheostomy, Psychosocial response, Client education
MSC: Client Needs Category: Psychosocial Integrity

4. A nurse is planning discharge t A nurse is planning discharge t
eaching on tracheostomy care for an older client. What factors
does the nurse need to assess before teaching this particular client? ( Select all that apply. ) 
a. Cognition
b. Dexterity
c. Hydration
d. Range of motion
e. Vision
f. Upper arm range of motion

[ANS : REMOVED]

The older adult is at risk for having impairments in cognition, dexterity, range of motion, and vision that could limit the abili
ty to perform tracheostomy care and would be assessed. Upper
arm mobility is required to perform tracheostomy self-care. Hydration is not directly related to 
the ability to perform self-care.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Tracheostomy, Older adult
MSC: Client Needs Category: Health Promotion and Maintenance

5. A nurse is teaching a client about possible complications and hazards of home oxygen therapy. About which complications does the nurse plan A nurse is teaching a client about possible complications and hazards of home oxygen therapy. About which complications does the nurse plan
 to teach the client? ( Select all that
apply. )
a. Absorptive atelectasis
b. Combustion
c. Dried mucous membranes
d. Alveolar recruitment
e. Toxicity

[ANS : REMOVED]

Complications of oxygen therapy include absorptive atelectasis, combustion, dried mucous membranes, and oxygen toxicity. Alveolar recruitment may be a benefit of high-flow nasal cannulas such as Vapotherm, which both humidifies and w
 arms the oxygen.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Oxygen therapy, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Safety and Infection Control 
