Chapter 26: Concepts of Care for Patients With Noninfectious Upper Respiratory Problems
Ignatavicius: Medical-Surgical Nursing, 10th Edition
MULTIPLE CHOICE

1. A nurse is assessing a client who has suffered a nasal fracture. Which assessment would the nurse perform first? A nurse is assessing a client who has suffered a nasal fracture. Which assessment would the nurse perform first?
a. Facial pain
b. Vital signs
c. Bone displacement
d. Airway patency

[ANS : REMOVED]

A patent airway is the priority. The nurse first would make sure that the airway is patent and 
then would determine whether the client is in pain and whether bone displacement or blood loss has occurred.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process:
Assessment
KEY: Trauma, Medical emergencies
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care 

2. A nurse assesses a client who has a nasal fracture. The client reports constant nasal drainage, a headache, and difficulty with vision. What action would the nurse take next? A nurse assesses a client who has a nasal fracture. The client reports constant nasal drainage, a headache, and difficulty with vision. What action would the nurse take next?
a. Collect the nasal drainage on a piece of filter paper.
b. Encourage the client to blow his or her nose.
c. Perform a test focused on a neurologic examination.
d. Palpate the nose, face, and ne
ck.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The client with nasal drainage after facial trauma could have a skull fracture resulting in leakage of cerebrospinal fluid
(CSF). CSF can be differentiated from regular drainage by the
fact that it forms a halo when dripped on filter paper and tests positive for glucose. The other 
actions would be appropriate but are not as high a priority as assessing for CSF. A CSF leak would increase the patients risk for infection.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Trauma, Medical emergencies
MSC: Client Needs Category: Ph
ysiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential

3. A nurse teaches a client who had a supraglottic laryngect A nurse teaches a client who had a supraglottic laryngect
 omy. Which technique would the
nurse teach the client to prevent aspiration?
a. Tilt the head back as far as possible when swallowing.
b. Swallow twice while bearing down.
c. Breathe slowly and deeply while swallowing.
d. Keep the head very still and straight while swallowing.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The client post supraglottic laryngectomy has a high risk for aspiration. The nurse or speech language pathologist teaches the client the supraglottic m
 ethod of swallowing. This includes
placing a small amount of food in the mouth, performing the Valsalva maneuver, then swallowing twice. The client sits upright. The client holds the breath while swallowing twice.
Keeping the head still and straight will not decrease the risk of aspiration.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Aspiration Precautions
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential 

4. A nurse assesses clients on the m A nurse assesses clients on the m
edical-surgical unit. Which client is at greatest risk for
development of obstructive sleep apnea?
a. A 26-year-old woman who is 8 months pregnant.
b. A 42-year-old man with gastroesophageal reflux disease.
c. A 55-year-old woman who is 50 lb (23 kg) overweight.
d. A 73-year-old man with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The client at highest risk would be the one who is extremely overweight. None of the other clients have risk factors for sleep apnea. Clients with sleep apnea may develop
gastroesophageal reflux.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Obstructive sleep apnea, Risk factors
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

5. A nurse cares for a client who has hypertension that has not responded well to several  A nurse cares for a client who has hypertension that has not responded well to several 
medications. The client states compliance is not an issue. What action would the nurse take next?
a. Assess the client for obstructive sleep apnea.
b. Arrange a home sleep apnea test.
c. Encourage the client to begin exercising.
d. Schedule a polysomnography

[ANS : REMOVED]

Hypertension not responding to medications can be a sign of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA).
The nurse would assess the client using an evidence-based tool, such as the STOP-Bang Sleep Apnea Questionnaire, the Epworth Sleepiness Scale, the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, and 
the Multiple Sleep Latency Test. If the results of the assessment indicate OSA may be a problem, the nurse would consult the primary health care provider for further testing. An at-home sleep-study is often done prior to a polysomnography. Excessive weight can contribute to OSA so exercising is always encouraged, but
 this is not specific to assessing for
OSA.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Obstructive sleep apnea, Nursing assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Safety and Infection Control 6. A nurse cares for a client after radiation therapy for neck cancer. The client reports extreme 
dry mouth. What action by the nurse is most appropriate?
a. Ask the client to gargle wit
h mouthwash containing lidocaine.
b. Administer IV fluid boluses every 2 hours.
c. Explain that x erostomia may be a permanent side eff
 ect.
d. Assess the clients neck for redness and swelling.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Xerostomia, or dry mouth, is a potential side effect of rad
 iation, particularly if the salivary
glands were in the radiation zone. Unfortunately, this may be long term or even permanent.
Gargling with lidocaine would not help. Increasing fluids is somewhat helpful, but the client would be encouraged to drink. The clients neck may have redness and swelling, but this 
finding is not related to the reported dry mouth.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Cancer, Surgical complications
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies 7. A nurse cares for a client who had a partial laryngectomy 10 days ago. The client states that 
all food tastes bland. How would the nurse respond?
a. I will consult the speech therapist to ensure you are swallowing properly.?
b. This is normal after surgery. What types of food do you like to eat??
c. I will ask the dietitian to change the consistency of the food in your diet.?
d. Replacement of protein, calories, and water is very important after surgery.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Many clients experience changes in taste after surgery. The nurse would identify foods that 
the client wants to eat to ensure that the client maintains necessary nutrition. Although the nurse would collaborate with t
he speech therapist and dietitian to ensure appropriate
replacement of protein, calories, and water, the other responses do not address the patients 
concerns.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Communication and Documentation
KEY: Surgical care, Nutrition
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Basic Care and Comfort

8. A nurse cares for a client who is scheduled for a total laryngectomy. What action would the nurse take prior to surgery?  A nurse cares for a client who is scheduled for a total laryngectomy. What action would the nurse take prior to surgery? 
a. Assess airway patency, breathing, and circulation.
b. Administer prescribed intravenous pain medication.
c. Assist the client to choose a communication method.
d. Ambulate the client in the hallway to assess gait.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The client will not be able to speak after surgery. The nurse would assist the client to choose a 
communication method that he or she would like to use after surgery. Assessing the patients airway and administering IV pain medication are done after the procedure. Although ambulation promotes health and decreases the complications of any surgery, this patients gait would not be impacted by a total laryngectomy and there
 fore is not a priority.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integ
rated Process: Caring
KEY: Surgical care, Communication
MSC: Client Needs Category: Psychosocial Integrity

9. While assessing a client who has facial trauma, the nurse auscultates stridor. The client is anxious and restless. What action would the nurse take first? While assessing a client who has facial trauma, the nurse auscultates stridor. The client is anxious and restless. What action would the nurse take first?
a. Contact the primary health care provider and prepare for intubation.
b. Administer prescribed albuterol nebulizer therapy.
c. Place the client in high-Fowler position.
d. Ask the client to perform deep-breathing exercises.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Facial and neck tissue edema can occur in clients with facial trauma. Airway patency is the highest priority. Clients who experience stridor and hypoxia, manifested by anxiety and restlessness, would be immediately intubated to ensure airway patency. Albuterol decreases 
bronchi and bronchiole inflammation, not facial and neck edema. Although putting the client in high-Fowler position and as
king the client to perform breathing exercises may temporarily
improve the patients comfort, these actions will not decrease the underlying problem or improve airway patency.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Trauma, Airway
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

10. A nurse cares for a client who has packing inserted for posterior nasal bleeding. What action would the nurse take first?  A nurse cares for a client who has packing inserted for posterior nasal bleeding. What action would the nurse take first? 
a. Assess the clients pain level.
b. Keep the clients head elev
ated.
c. Teach the client about the causes of nasal bleeding.
d. Assess the clients airway.

[ANS : REMOVED]

If the packing slips out of place, it may obstruct the clients airway. The other options are 
good interventions, but ensuring that the airway is patent in the priority objective.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Epistaxis, Airway
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care 11. A nurse teaches a client to use a room humidifier after a laryngectomy. Which statement would the nurse include in this patients teaching?
a. Add peppermint oil to the humidifier to relax the airway.?
b. Make sure you clean the humidifier to prevent infection.?
c. Keep the humidifier filled with water at all times.?
d. Use the humidifier when you sleep, even during daytime naps.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Priority teaching related to the use of a room humidifier focuses on infection control. Clients 
would be taught to meticulously clean the humidifier to prevent the spread of mold or other sources of infection. Peppermint oil would not be added to a humidifier. The humidifier would be refilled with water as needed and would be used while awake and asleep.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Laryngectomy, Health teac
hing
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Safety and Infection Control 

12. A nurse is caring for a client who had a modified uvulopalatopharyngoplasty (modUPPP) earlier in the day for obstructive sleep apnea. Which assess A nurse is caring for a client who had a modified uvulopalatopharyngoplasty (modUPPP) earlier in the day for obstructive sleep apnea. Which assess
 ment finding indicates that a
priority goal has been met?
a. Client reports pain is controlled satisfactorily with analgesic regime.
b. Client does not have foul odor to the breath or beefy red mucus membranes.
c. Client is able to swallow own secretions without drooling.
d. Clients vital signs are with
in normal parameters.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The priority after a modUPPP is maintaining a patent airway. The client who has a patent airway can swallow his or her ow
n secretions without drooling. Controlled pain is important,
but not the priority. Foul breath odor and beefy red mucus membranes indicate possible infection, which probably would not occur this soon afte
 r surgery, but preventing infection
does not take priority over airway. Vital signs within normal parameters? are vague.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Evaluation
KEY: Obstructive sleep apnea, Airway
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential 
MULTIPLE RESPONSE

1. A nurse assesses a client who is 6 hours postsurgery for a nasal fracture and has nasal packing in place. What actions would the nurse take? ( Select all that apply.) A nurse assesses a client who is 6 hours postsurgery for a nasal fracture and has nasal packing in place. What actions would the nurse take? ( Select all that apply.)
a. Observe for clear drainage.
b. Assess for signs of bleedin
g.
c. Watch the client for frequent swallowing.
d. Ask the client to open his or her mouth.
e. Administer a nasal steroid to decrease edema.
f. Change the nasal packing.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The nurse would observe for clear drainage because of the risk for cerebrospinal fluid leakage.
The nurse would assess for signs of bleeding by asking the client to open his or her mouth and observing the back of the throat for bleeding. The nurse would also note whether the client is 
swallowing frequently because this could indicate postnasal bleeding. A nasal steroid would increase the risk for infection.
It is too soon to change the packing, which would be changed
by the surgeon the first time. 
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Surgical care, Nursing assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential 

2. The nurse is teaching a client with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) about the prescribed CPAP. The nurse is teaching a client with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) about the prescribed CPAP.
What information does the nurse include? ( Select all that apply.)
a. Insurance will cover the cost if you wear it at least 4 hour
s a day.
b. Once the delivery mask is adjusted, do not loosen the straps.
c. The CPAP provides pressur
e that holds your upper airways open.
d. You need to clean the mask at least once a week to prevent infection.
e. The humidification increases the risk of fungal infections.
f. Be patient when first using the system, it can be frustrating at first.

[ANS : REMOVED]

A CPAP for OSA provides pressure that keeps the upper
 airway open. A properly fitting mask
or nasal pillows is necessary to provide the pressure. Humidification in the system leads to an increased risk for fungal infections. Patients may have anxiety about using the equipment and worry about it being disruptive; most clients have a period of adjustment when first starting to 
use a CPAP. Medicare will usually cover the cost if the client wears the CPAP at least 6 hours a day. The mask or pillows should be cleaned daily.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated
 Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Obstructive sleep apnea, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Ph
ysiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential

3. A nurse assesses a client who has facial trauma. Which ass A nurse assesses a client who has facial trauma. Which ass
 essment findings require
immediate intervention? ( Select all that apply.)
a. Stridor
b. Nasal stuffiness
c. Edema of the cheek
d. Ecchymosis behind the ear
e. Eye pain
f. Swollen chin

[ANS : REMOVED]

Stridor is a sign of airway obstruction and requires immediate intervention. Ecchymosis, or 
bruising, behind the ear is called battle sign? and indicates basilar skull fracture.
Nasal stuffiness, edema of the cheek or chin, and eye pain do not interfere with respirations or neurologic function, and therefore are not priorities for immediate intervention.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Trauma, Medical emergencies
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care 

4. A nurse teaches a client who is being discharged after a jaw wiring for a mandibular fracture. A nurse teaches a client who is being discharged after a jaw wiring for a mandibular fracture.
Which statements would the nur
se include in this patients teaching? ( Select all that apply.)
a. You will need to cut the wires if you start vomiting.?
b. Eat six soft or liquid meals each day while recovering.?
c. Use a Waterpik for dental hygiene until you can brush again.
d. Sleep in a semi-Fowler position after the surgery.?
e. Gargle with mouthwash that contains hydrogen peroxi
 de once a day.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

The client needs to know how to cut the wires in case of emergency. If the client vomits, he or she may aspirate. The client would also be taught to eat so
 ft or liquid meals multiple times a
day, irrigate the mouth with a Waterpik to prevent infection, and sleep in a semi-Fowler position to assist in avoiding a
spiration. Mouthwash with hydrogen peroxide is not a
recommendation.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Surgical care, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential 

5. A nurse is assessing clients on a rehabilitation unit. Which clients are at greatest risk for airway loss related to aspirated oral and nasopharyngeal se A nurse is assessing clients on a rehabilitation unit. Which clients are at greatest risk for airway loss related to aspirated oral and nasopharyngeal se
 cretions? ( Select all that apply.)
a. A 24 year old with a traumatic brain injury
b. A 36 year old who fractured his left femur
c. A 58 year old getting radiation therapy
d. A 66 year old who is a quadriplegic
e. An 80-year-old who is apha
sic

[ANS : REMOVED]

Thickly crusted, dry secretions that potentially can cause asphyxiation and airway obstruction (inspissated secretions or muco
id impaction) are seen most often in clients who have an
altered mental status and level of consciousness (brain injury), are dehydrated, are unable to communicate (aphasic), are unable to cough effectively (q
 uadriplegic), or are at risk for
aspiration. The clients with the femur fracture and receiving radiation therapy are not as high of a risk. The location of the radiation is not known.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Medical emergencies
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

6. A nurse assesses a client who is at risk for neck cancer. Which symptoms would the nurse assess for? ( Select all that app A nurse assesses a client who is at risk for neck cancer. Which symptoms would the nurse assess for? ( Select all that app
ly.)
a. Oral mucosa is gray or dark brown
b. Pain when drinking grapefruit juice
c. Persistent weight gain over the past 2 months
d. Oral lesions that are over 2 weeks old
e. Changes in the patients voice quality

[ANS : REMOVED]

Symptoms of head and neck cancer include color changes in the mouth or tongue to gray or dark brown; pain in the mouth, neck, and throat; burning s
 ensation when drinking citrus
juices; weight loss; oral lesions or soars that do not heal in 2 weeks; and hoarseness or changes in voice quality.
DIF: Knowing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Cancer, Nursing assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

7. A nurse teaches a client who has epistaxis and recently had his nasal packing removed. Which statements indicate that the client correctly understood the teaching? ( Select all that apply.) a. I will vigorously blow my nose multiple times each day.? A nurse teaches a client who has epistaxis and recently had his nasal packing removed. Which statements indicate that the client correctly understood the teaching? ( Select all that apply.) a. I will vigorously blow my nose multiple times each day.?
b. Nasal saline sprays will help to prevent rebleeding.?
c. I will wait at least 1 month before resuming weight lifting.?
d. Ibuprofen will decrease nasal swelling and pain.?
e. I will apply a small amount of petroleum jelly to my nares.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

A nurse would teach a client to avoid vigorous nose blowing, the use of aspirin or other NSAIDs, and strenuous activities such as heavy lifting for at least 1 month. The nurse would 
also teach the client to apply petroleum jelly sparingly to the nares for lubrication and comfort, and to use nasal saline sprays and humidification to prevent rebleeding.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Lear
 ning
KEY: Epistaxis, Home care
MSC: Client Needs Category: Ph
ysiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

8. A nurse is teaching a community group about the long-term effects of untreated sleep apnea. A nurse is teaching a community group about the long-term effects of untreated sleep apnea.
What information does the nurse include? ( Select all that apply.)
a. Hypertension
b. Stroke
c. Weight gain
d. Diabetes
e. Cognitive deficits
f. Pulmonary disease

[ANS : REMOVED]

The long-term effects of untreated sleep apnea include increased risk for hypertension, stroke, 
cognitive deficits, weight gain, diabetes, and pulmonary and cardiovascular disease.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Obstructive sleep apnea, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation
