Chapter 28: Concepts of Care for Patients With Infectious Respiratory Problems Ignatavicius: Medical-Surgical Nursing, 10th Edition
MULTIPLE CHOICE

1. A nurse working in a geriatric clinic sees clients with cold? symptoms and rhinitis. The primary health care provider (PHCP) often leaves a prescription for diphenhydramine. What action by the nurse is best?  A nurse working in a geriatric clinic sees clients with cold? symptoms and rhinitis. The primary health care provider (PHCP) often leaves a prescription for diphenhydramine. What action by the nurse is best? 
a. Teach the client about possible drowsiness.
b. Instruct the client to drink plenty of water.
c. Consult with the PHCP about the medication.
d. Encourage the client to take the medication with food.

[ANS : REMOVED]

First-generation antihistamines are not appropriate for use in the older population. These 
drugs include chlorpheniramine, diphenhydramine, and hydroxyzine. The nurse would consult with the PHCP and request a d
ifferent medication. Diphenhydramine does cause drowsiness,
but the nurse would request a different medication. Drinking plenty of fluids is appropriate for the condition and is not related to the medication. Antihi
 stamines can be taken without regard
to food.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Antihistamines, Older adults
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies 2. A nurse in a family practice clinic is preparing discharge instructions for a client reporting 
facial pain that is worse when bending over, tenderness across the cheeks, and postnasal discharge. What instruction wi
ll be most helpful?
a. Ice packs may help with the facial pain.?
b. Limit fluids to dry out your sinuses.?
c. Try warm, moist heat packs on your face.?
d. We will schedule a computed tomography scan this week.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

This client has rhinosinusitis. Comfort measures for this condition include humidification, hot packs, nasal saline irrigations, sleeping with the head elevated, increased fluids, and avoiding cigarette smoke. The client does not need a CT scan.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Infectious respiratory problems, Nonpharmacologic comfort interventions
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Basic C
 are and Comfort

3. Which teaching point is most important for the client with a peritonsillar abscess? Which teaching point is most important for the client with a peritonsillar abscess?
a. Gargle with warm salt water.
b. Take all antibiotics as directed.
c. Let us know if you want liquid medications.
d. Wash hands frequently.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Any client on antibiotics must be instructed to complete the entire course of antibiotics. Not completing them can lead to complications or drug-resista
 nt strains of bacteria. The other
instructions are appropriate, just not the most important.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Antibiotics, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

4. A client is in the family practice clinic reporting a severe cold? that started 4 days ago. On  A client is in the family practice clinic reporting a severe cold? that started 4 days ago. On 
examination, the nurse notes that the client also has a severe headache and muscle aches.
What action by the nurse is best
?
a. Educate the client on oseltamivir.
b. Facilitate admission to the hospital.
c. Instruct the client to have a flu vaccine.
d. Teach the client to sneeze in the upper sleeve.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Sneezing and coughing into ones sleeve helps prevent the spread of upper respiratory infections. The client does have symptoms of the flu (influenza), but it is too late to start antiviral medications; to be effective, they must be started within 24 to 48 hours of symptom 
onset. The client does not need hospital admission. The client would be instructed to have a flu vaccination, but now that he
or she has the flu, vaccination will have to wait until next
year.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Influenza, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Health Promotion and Maintenance

5. The charge nurse on a medical unit is preparing to admit several clients? who have possible pandemic flu during a preparedness drill. What action by the nurse is best? The charge nurse on a medical unit is preparing to admit several clients? who have possible pandemic flu during a preparedness drill. What action by the nurse is best?
a. Admit the clients? on Contact Precautions.
b. Inquire as to recent travel outside the United States.
c. Do not allow pregnant careg
ivers to care for these clients.?
d. Place the clients? on enhanced Droplet Precautions.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Preventing the spread of pandemic flu is equally important as caring for the clients who have it. Preventing the spread of disease is vital. The nurse would ask the clients? about recent 
overseas travel to assess the risk of a pandemic flu. Clients with possible pandemic flu need to be in Contact and Airborne Precautions the infectious organism is identified and routes of transmission known. There is no specific danger to pregnant caregivers. Droplet Precautions are not appropriate.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integ
rated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Infection control, Transmission-based precautions
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Safety and Infection Control 6. A client admitted for pneumonia has been tachypneic for several days. When the nurse starts an IV to give fluids, the client questions this action, saying I have been drinking tons of 
water. How am I dehydrated?? What response by the nurse is best?
a. Breathing so quickly can be
dehydrating.?
b. Everyone with pneumonia is dehydrated.?
c. This is really just to administer your antibiotics.?
d. Why do you think you are so dehydrated??

[ANS : REMOVED]

Tachypnea and mouth breathing (from increased work of
 breathing), both seen in pneumonia,
increase insensible water loss and can lead to a degree of dehydration. The other options do not give the client useful information that addresses this specific concern.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Pneumonia, Fluid and electrolyte imbalances
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

7. An older adult is brought to the emergency department by a family member, who reports a moderate change in mental stat An older adult is brought to the emergency department by a family member, who reports a moderate change in mental stat
us and mild cough. The client is afebrile. The primary health
care provider orders a chest x-ray. The family member questions why this is needed since the 
symptoms seem so vague. What response by the nurse is best?
a. Chest x-rays are always ordered when we suspect pneumonia.?
b. Older people often have vague symptoms, so an x-ray is essential.?
c. The x-ray can be done and read before laboratory work is reported.?
d. We are testing for any possible source of infection in the client.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

It is essential to obtain an early chest x-ray in older adults suspected of having pneumonia 
because symptoms are often vague. Waiting until definitive signs and symptoms are present to obtain the x-ray leads to a cost
ly delay in treatment. Stating that chest x-rays are always
ordered does not give the family definitive information. The x-ray can be done while 
laboratory values are still pending, but this also does not provide specific information about the importance of a chest x-ray in this client. The client has symptoms of pneumonia, so the staff is not testing for any possible source of infection but rather is testing for a suspected disorder.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Communication and Documentation
KEY: Older adult, Pneumonia
MSC: Client Needs Category: Health Promotion and Maintena
 nce

8. A client has been diagnosed with tuberculosis (TB). What action by the nurse takes highest priority? A client has been diagnosed with tuberculosis (TB). What action by the nurse takes highest priority?
a. Educating the client on adherence to the treatment regimen
b. Encouraging the client to eat a well-balanced diet
c. Informing the client about follow-up sputum cultures
d. Teaching the client ways to balance rest with activity

[ANS : REMOVED]

The treatment regimen for TB often ranges from 26 weeks, but can be up to 2 years, making adherence problematic for many people. The nurse woul
 d stress the absolute importance of
following the treatment plan for the entire duration of prescribed therapy. The other options are appropriate topics to educate this client on but do not take priority.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Tuberculosis, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

9. A client has been admitted for suspected inhalation anthr A client has been admitted for suspected inhalation anthr
 ax infection. What question by the
nurse is most important?
a. Are any family members also ill??
b. Have you traveled recently??
c. How long have you been ill??
d. What is your occupation??

[ANS : REMOVED]

Inhalation anthrax is rare and is an occupational hazard among people who work with animal wool, bone meal, hides, and skin, such as taxidermists and veterinarians. Inhalation anthrax seen in someone without an occupational risk is considered a bioterrorism event and must be reported to authorities immediately. The other questions are appropriate for anyone with an
infection.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Infection, Anthrax
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Safety and Infection Control 

10. A charge nurse is rounding on several older clients on ventilators in the Intensive Care Unit 
whom the nurse identifies as being at high risk for ventilator-associated pneumonia. To reduce this risk, what activity would t
he nurse delegate to the assistive personnel (AP)?
a. Encourage between-meal snacks.
b. Monitor temperature every 4 hours.
c. Provide oral care every 4 hours.
d. Report any new onset of cough.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Oral colonization by gram-negative bacteria is a risk factor for health care associated pneumonia. Good, frequent oral care can help prevent this from developing and is a task that can be delegated to the AP. Encouraging good nutrition is important, but this will not prevent 
pneumonia. Monitoring temperature and reporting new cough in clients are important to detect the onset of possible pne
umonia but do not prevent it.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Communicat
 ion and Documentation
KEY: Pneumonia, Oral care
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care 

11. The emergency department (ED) manager is reviewing client charts to determine how well the staff perform when treating clients with community-acquired pneumonia. What outcome demonstrates that goals for this client type have been met? The emergency department (ED) manager is reviewing client charts to determine how well the staff perform when treating clients with community-acquired pneumonia. What outcome demonstrates that goals for this client type have been met?
a. Antibiotics started before admission.
b. Blood cultures obtained within 20 minutes.
c. Chest x-ray obtained withi
n 30 minutes.
d. Pulse oximetry obtained on all clients.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Goals for treatment of commu
nity-acquired pneumonia include initiating antibiotics prior to
inclient admission or within 6 hours of presentation to the ED. Timely collection of blood 
cultures, chest x-ray, and pulse oximetry are important as well but do not coincide with established goals.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Infection, Pneumonia
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care 

12. A nurse has educated a client on isoniazid. What statement by the client indicates that 
teaching has been effective?
a. I need to take extra vitamin C while on isoniazid.?
b. I should take this medicine with milk or juice.?
c. I will take this medication on an empty stomach.?
d. My contact lenses will be permanently stained.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Isoniazid needs to be taken on an empty stomach, either 1 hour before or 2 hours after meals.
Extra vitamin B needs to be taken while on the drug. Staining of contact lenses commonly occurs while taking rifampin.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Evaluation
KEY: Tuberculosis, Medications, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies 

13. A client has been taking isoniazid for tuberculosis for 3 weeks. What laboratory results need to be reported to the primary health care provider immediately? A client has been taking isoniazid for tuberculosis for 3 weeks. What laboratory results need to be reported to the primary health care provider immediately?
a. Albumin: 5.1 g/dL (7.4 mcmol/L)
b. Alanine aminotransferase (ALT): 180 U/L
c. Red blood cell (RBC) count: 5.2/million/ L (5.2 × 1012/L)
d. White blood cell (WBC) count: 12,500/mm3 (12.5 × 109/L)

[ANS : REMOVED]

INH can cause liver damage, especially if the client drinks alcohol. The ALT (one of the liver enzymes) is extremely high and needs to be reported immediately. The albumin and RBCs are normal. The WBCs are slightly high, but that would be an expected finding in a client with an 
infection.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Analysis
KEY: Tuberculosis, Medication side effects
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential 

14. A client seen in the emergency department reports fever, fatigue, and dry cough but no other 
upper respiratory symptoms. A chest x-ray reveals mediastinal widening. What action by the nurse is best?
a. Collect a sputum sample for culture by deep suctioning.
b. Inform the client that oral antibiotics will be needed for 60 days.
c. Place the client on Airborne Precautions immediately.
d. Tell the client that directly obs
erved therapy is needed.

[ANS : REMOVED]

This client has signs and symptoms of early inhalation anthrax. For treatment, after IV
antibiotics are finished, oral an
tibiotics are continued for at least 60 days. Sputum cultures are
not needed. Anthrax is not transmissible from person to person, so Standard Precautions are 
adequate. Directly observed therapy is often used for tuberculosis.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Anthrax, Antibiotics
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physio
 logical Adaptation

15. A client has been hospitalized w A client has been hospitalized w
ith tuberculosis (TB). The clients spouse is fearful of
entering the room where the client is in isolation and refuses to visit. What action by the nurse 
is best?
a. Ask the spouse to explain the fear of visiting in further detail.
b. Inform the spouse that the precautions are meant to keep other clients safe.
c. Show the spouse how to follow the Isolation Precauti
 ons to avoid illness.
d. Tell the spouse that he or she has already been exposed, so its safe to visit.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The nurse needs to obtain further information about the s
 pouses specific fears so they can be
addressed. This will decrease stress and permit visitation, which will be beneficial for both client and spouse. Precautions fo
r TB prevent transmission to all who come into contact with
the client. Explaining Isolation Precautions and what to do when entering the room will be 
helpful, but this is too narrow in scope to be the best answer. Telling the spouse that its safe to visit is demeaning of the spouses feelings.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Caring
KEY: Tuberculosis, Therapeutic communication
MSC: Client Needs Category: Psy
chosocial Integrity

16. A client is being discharged on long-term therapy for tub A client is being discharged on long-term therapy for tub
 erculosis (TB). What referral by the
nurse is most appropriate?
a. Community social worker for Meals on Wheels
b. Occupational therapy for job retraining
c. Physical therapy for homebound therapy services
d. Visiting nurses for directly
observed therapy

[ANS : REMOVED]

Directly observed therapy is often utilized for managing clients with TB in the community.
Meals on Wheels, job retraining, a
nd home therapy may or may not be appropriate.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Communicat
 ion and Documentation
KEY: Tuberculosis, Referrals
MSC: Client Needs Category: Saf
e and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care

17. A client is admitted with suspected pneumonia from the emergency department. The client went to the primary health care provider a few days ago? and shows the nurse the results of what the client calls an allergy test,? as shown below: A client is admitted with suspected pneumonia from the emergency department. The client went to the primary health care provider a few days ago? and shows the nurse the results of what the client calls an allergy test,? as shown below:
The reddened area is firm. What action by the nurse is best?
a. Assess the client for possible items to which he or she is allergic.
b. Call the primary health care providers office to requ
 est records.
c. Immediately place the client on Airborne Precautions.
d. Prepare to begin administration of intravenous antibiotics.

[ANS : REMOVED]

This allergy test? is actually a positive tuberculosis test. The client would be placed on Airborne Precautions immediately. The other options do not take priority over preventing the spread of the disease.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Tuberculosis, Transmission-based precautions
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Safety and Infection Control 

18. A nurse admits a client from th A nurse admits a client from th
e emergency department. Client data are listed below:
History
Physical Assessment
Laboratory Values
  70 years of age
  Crackles and rhonchi heard   WBC 5,200/mm3 (5.2 ×
  History of diabetes
throughout the lungs
109/L)
  On insulin twice a day
  Dullness to percussion
  PaO2 on room air 85 mm
  Reports new onset dyspnea LLL
Hg
and productive cough
  Afebrile
  Oriented to person only
What action by the nurse is the priority?
a. Administer oxygen at 4 L per nasal cannula.
b. Begin broad-spectrum antibiotics.
c. Collect a sputum sample for culture.
d. Start an IV of normal saline at 50 mL/hr.

[ANS : REMOVED]

All actions are appropriate for this client who has signs and symptoms of pneumonia.
However, airway and breathing come first, so begin oxygen administration and titrate it to maintain saturations greater than 95%. Start the IV and collect a sputum culture, and then 
begin antibiotics.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Analysis
KEY: Pneumonia, Oxygen therapy
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care MULTIPLE RESPONSE

1. A nurse is providing pneumoni A nurse is providing pneumoni
a vaccinations in a community setting. Due to limited finances,
the event organizers must limit giving the vaccination to priority groups. What clients would be considered a priority when administering the pneumoni
 a vaccination? ( Select all that
apply. )
a. A 22-year-old client with asthma
b. Client who had a cholecystectomy last year
c. Client with well-controlled diabetes
d. Healthy 72-year-old client
e. Client who is taking medication for hypertension

[ANS : REMOVED]

Clients over 65 years of age and a
ny client (no matter what age) with a chronic health
condition would be considered a priority for a pneumonia vaccination. Having a
cholecystectomy a year ago does not qualify as a chronic
 health condition.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Vaccinations, Health promotion
MSC: Client Needs Category: Health Promotion and Maintenance

2. A hospital nurse is participating in a drill during which many clients? with inhalation anthrax  A hospital nurse is participating in a drill during which many clients? with inhalation anthrax 
are being admitted. What drugs would the nurse anticipate administering? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Vancomycin
b. Ciprofloxacin
c. Doxycycline
d. Ethambutol
e. Sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim (SMX-TMP)

[ANS : REMOVED]

Vancomycin, ciprofloxacin, and doxycycline are all possible treatments for inhalation anthrax.
Ethambutol is used for tuberculosis. SMX-TMP is commonly used for urinary tract infections 
and other common infections.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Anthrax, Emergency preparedness plan
MSC: Client Needs Category: Ph
ysiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies

3. A client in the emergency department is taking rifampin for tuberculosis. The client reports yellowing of the sclera and skin and bleeding after minor trauma. What laboratory results correlate to this condition? ( Select all that apply. ) A client in the emergency department is taking rifampin for tuberculosis. The client reports yellowing of the sclera and skin and bleeding after minor trauma. What laboratory results correlate to this condition? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Blood urea nitrogen (BUN): 19 mg/dL (6.7 mmol/L)
b. International normalized ratio (INR): 6.3
c. Prothrombin time: 35 seconds
d. Serum sodium: 130 mEq/L (130 mmol/L)
e. White blood cell (WBC) count: 72,000/mm3 (72 × 109/L)

[ANS : REMOVED]

Rifampin can cause liver damage, evidenced by the clients high INR and prothrombin time.
The BUN and WBC count are normal. The sodium level is low, but that is not related to this clients problem.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Analysis
KEY: Tuberculosis, Adverse medication effects
MSC: Client Needs Category: Ph
ysiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential

4. A client has been diagnosed with an empyema. What inter A client has been diagnosed with an empyema. What inter
 ventions would the nurse anticipate
providing to this client? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Assisting with chest tube insertion
b. Facilitating pleural fluid sampling
c. Performing frequent respiratory assessment
d. Providing antipyretics as needed
e. Suctioning deeply every 4 hours

[ANS : REMOVED]

The client with an empyema is often treated with chest tube insertion, which facilitates obtaining samples of the pleural fluid for analysis and re-expands the lungs. The nurse would perform frequent respiratory system assessments. Antipyretic medications are also used.
Suction is only used when needed and is not done deeply to prevent tissue injury.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Respiratory system, Chest tubes, Infection, Respiratory
 assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential 5. The emergency department nurse is participating in a bioterrorism drill in which several 
clients? are suspected to have inhalation anthrax. Which clients? would the nurse see as the priorities? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Widened mediastinum on chest x-ray
b. Dry cough
c. Stridor
d. Oxygen saturation of 91%
e. Diaphoresis
f. Oral temperature of 99.9  F (37.7  C)

[ANS : REMOVED]

Clients with fulminant anthrax may exhibit stridor, hypoxia, and diaphoresis. Although an 
oxygen saturation of 91% is not critical, it is abnormally low. These clients would be seen as the priority. A widened mediastinum and dry cough are usually seen in the prodromal phase when the temperature elevation is not as severe.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Anthrax, Nursing assessm
ent
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care 

6. A client is taking ethambutol for tuberculosis. What instructions does the nurse provide the client regarding this drug? ( Select all that apply. ) A client is taking ethambutol for tuberculosis. What instructions does the nurse provide the client regarding this drug? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Contact the primary health care provider if preexisting gout becomes worse.
b. Report any changes in vision immediately to the health care provider.
c. Avoid drinking alcoholic beverages due to the chance of liver damage.
d. Do not take antacids or eat within 2 hours after taking this medication.
e. You will take this medication along with some others
 for 8 weeks.
f. Take this medicine with a full glass of water.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The nurse would teach the client that preexisting gout ma
 y get worse and the client should
report this as medications for gout may need to be adjusted. The nurse would also inform the client about the multi-drug routine used for TB. Optic neuritis can occur with this drug so the client needs to report visual changes right away. The medication should be taken with a full 
glass of water. Drinking while taking ethambutol causes severe nausea and vomiting.
Avoiding antacids and food (within 2 hours) is a precaution with isoniazid.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated
 Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Tuberculosis, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Ph
ysiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies

7. The nurse is learning about endemic pulmonary diseases. Which diseases are matched with correct information? ( Select all that apply. ) The nurse is learning about endemic pulmonary diseases. Which diseases are matched with correct information? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Hanta virus: found in urine, droppings, and saliva of infected rodents.
b. Aspergillosis: requires a prolonged course of antibiotics.
c. Histoplasmosis: sources include soil containing bird and bat droppings.
d. Blastomycosis: requires str
ict adherence to multi-antibiotic regimen.
e. Cryptococcosis: has been eradicated due to strategic deforestation.
f. Coccidioidomycosis: found in the southwest and far west of the United States.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Hanta virus is often seen in the southwest United States and is found in the urine, droppings, 
and saliva of infected rodents. Histoplasmosis is found in soil containing bird and bat droppings and on surfaces covered with bird droppings. Apergillosis is a common mold found both indoors and outdoors and is treated with a long course of antifungal drugs. Blastomycosis is a fungal disease requiring a prolonged course of antifungal medications. Cryptococcosis is a 
fungus found on trees and in the soil beneath trees, but has not been eradicated with strategic deforestation. Coccidioidomyc
osis is found in the southwest and far west of the United States,
plus Mexico, and Central and South America.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Respiratory system, Infection, Respiratory assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation
