Chapter 30: Assessment of the Cardiovascular System
Ignatavicius: Medical-Surgical Nursing, 10th Edition
MULTIPLE CHOICE

1. A nurse assesses a client who had a myocardial infarction and has a blood pressure of 88/58 A nurse assesses a client who had a myocardial infarction and has a blood pressure of 88/58
mm Hg. Which additional assessment finding would the nurse expect?
a. Heart rate of 120 beats/min
b. Cool, clammy skin
c. Oxygen saturation of 90%
d. Respiratory rate of 8 breaths/min

[ANS : REMOVED]

When a client experiences hypotension, baroreceptors in the aortic arch sense a pressure decrease in the vessels. The parasympathetic system responds by lessening the inhibitory 
effect on the sinoatrial node. This results in an increase in heart rate and respiratory rate. This tachycardia is an early response an
d is seen even when blood pressure is not critically low. An
increased heart rate and respiratory rate will compensate for the low blood pressure and maintain oxygen saturation and perfusion. The client ma
 y not be able to compensate for long
and decreased oxygenation and cool, clammy skin will occur later.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Coronary perfusion, Hemodynamics
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

2. A nurse assesses a client after administering a prescribed beta blocker. Which assessment  A nurse assesses a client after administering a prescribed beta blocker. Which assessment 
would the nurse expect to find?
a. Blood pressure increased f
rom 98/42 to 132/60 mm Hg.
b. Respiratory rate decreased from 25 to 14 breaths/min.
c. Oxygen saturation increased from 88% to 96%.
d. Pulse decreased from 100 to 80 beats/min.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Beta blockers block the stimulation of beta1-adrenergic receptors. They block the sympathetic (fight-or-flight) response and decrease the heart rate (HR). The beta blocker will decrease HR
and blood pressure, increasing ventricular filling time. It usually does not have effects on beta2-adrenergic receptor sites. Cardiac output may drop be
 cause of decreased HR, but
slowing the rate may allow for better filling and better cardiac output.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Beta blocker, Medication
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies 3. A nurse assesses clients on a medical-surgical unit. Which client would the nurse identify as 
having the greatest risk for cardiovascular disease?
a. An 86-year-old man with a history of asthma.
b. A 32-year-old man with colorectal cancer.
c. A 65-year-old woman with diabetes mellitus.
d. A 53-year-old postmenopausal woman who takes bisphosphonates.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Of the options, the client with diabetes has a two- to four
 -fold increase in risk for death due to
cardiovascular disease. Advancing age also increases risk, but not as much. Asthma, colorectal cancer, and bisphosphonate therapy do not increase the risk for cardiovascular disease.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Health screening
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care 

4. A nurse assesses an older adul A nurse assesses an older adul
t client who has multiple chronic diseases. The clients heart
rate is 48 beats/min. What action would the nurse take first?
a. Document the finding in the chart.
b. Initiate external pacing.
c. Assess the clients medications.
d. Administer 1 mg of atropine.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Pacemaker cells in the conduction system decrease in number as a person ages, potentially resulting in bradycardia. However, the nurse would first check the medication reconciliation 
for medications that might cause such a drop in heart rate, and then would inform the primary health care provider. Documen
tation is important, but it is not the first action. The heart rate is
not low enough for atropine or an external pacemaker to be needed unless the client is 
symptomatic, which is not apparent.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Medication, Assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care 5. An emergency department nurse obtains the health history of a client. Which statement by the client would alert the nurse to the occurrence of heart fai
 lure?
a. I get short of breath when I climb stairs.?
b. I see halos floating around m
y head.?
c. I have trouble remembering things.?
d. I have lost weight over the past month.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Dyspnea on exertion is an early manifestation of heart failure and is associated with an 
activity such as stair climbing. The other findings are not specific to early occurrence of heart failure.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Cardiovascular assessment, Heart failure
MSC: Client Needs Category: Ph
ysiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

6. A nurse obtains the health history of a client who is newl A nurse obtains the health history of a client who is newl
 y admitted to the medical unit.
Which statement by the client would alert the nurse to the presence of edema?
a. I wake up to go to the bathroom at night.?
b. My shoes fit tighter by the end of the day.?
c. I seem to be feeling more anxious lately.?
d. I drink at least eight glasses of water a day.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Weight gain can result from fluid accumulation in the inte
 rstitial spaces. This is known as
edema. The nurse would note whether the client feels that his or her shoes or rings are tight, and would observe, when present, an indentation around the leg where the socks end. The other answers do not describe edema.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Heart failure, Nursing assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

7. A nurse assesses female client A nurse assesses female client
who is experiencing a myocardial infarction. Which clinical
manifestation would the nurse expect?
a. Excruciating pain on inspiration
b. Left lateral chest wall pain
c. Fatigue and shortness of breath
d. Numbness and tingling of the arm

[ANS : REMOVED]

In women, fatigue, shortness of breath, and indigestion may be the major symptoms of myocardial infarction caused by poor cardiac output. Chest pain is the classic symptom of 
myocardial infarction and can be present in women. Pain on inspiration may be related to a pleuropulmonary cause. Numbne
ss and tingling of the arm could also be related to the
myocardial infarction, but are not known to be specific symptoms for women having and MI.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Coronary perfusion, Gender differences
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

8. A nurse assesses a client 2 hours after a cardiac angiography via the left femoral artery. The nurse notes that the left pedal pulse is weak. What action would the nurse take next? A nurse assesses a client 2 hours after a cardiac angiography via the left femoral artery. The nurse notes that the left pedal pulse is weak. What action would the nurse take next?
a. Elevate the leg and apply a sandbag to the entrance si
 te.
b. Increase the flow rate of intravenous fluids.
c. Assess the color and temper
ature of the left leg.
d. Document the finding as left pedal pulse of +1/4.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Loss of a pulse distal to an angi
ography entry site is serious, indicating a possible arterial
obstruction. The left pulse would be compared with the right, and pulses would be compared 
with previous assessments, especially before the procedure. Assessing color (pale, cyanosis) and temperature (cool, cold) will identify a decrease in circulation. Once all peripheral and vascular assessment data are acquired, the primary health care provider would be notified.
Simply documenting the findings is inappropriate. The le
 g would be positioned below the
level of the heart to increase blood flow to the distal portion of the leg. Increasing intravenous fluids will not address the clien
ts problem.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Cardiovascular assessment, Complications
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

9. A nurse assesses a client who is recovering after a left-sided cardiac catheterization. Which assessment finding requires immediate intervention? A nurse assesses a client who is recovering after a left-sided cardiac catheterization. Which assessment finding requires immediate intervention?
a. Urinary output less than intake
b. Bruising at the insertion site
c. Slurred speech and confusion
d. Discomfort in the left leg

[ANS : REMOVED]

A left-sided cardiac catheterization specifically increases the risk for a cerebral vascular accident. A change in neurologic status needs to be acted on immediately. Discomfort and bruising are not unexpected at the site. Urinary output less than intake may or may not be 
significant.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Cardiovascular assessment, Diagnostic examination, C
 ritical rescue
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care 10. A nurse assesses a client who is scheduled for a cardiac catheterization. Which assessment 
would the nurse complete as the priority prior to this procedure?
a. Clients level of anxiety
b. Ability to turn self in bed
c. Cardiac rhythm and heart rate
d. Allergies to iodine-based agents

[ANS : REMOVED]

Before the procedure, the nurse would ascertain whether the client has an allergy to 
iodine-containing preparations, such as seafood or local anesthetics. The contrast medium used during the procedure is iod
ine based. This allergy can cause a life-threatening reaction,
so it is a high priority. It is important for the nurse to assess anxiety, mobility, and baseline 
cardiac status, but allergies take priority for client safety.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Diagnostic examination, Client safety
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential

11. A nurse cares for a client who is prescribed magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the heart. A nurse cares for a client who is prescribed magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the heart. 
The clients health history includes a previous myocardial infarction and pacemaker implantation. What action would the nurse take?
a. Schedule an electrocardiogram just before the MRI.
b. Notify the primary health care provider before scheduling the MRI.
c. Request lab for cardiac enzymes from the primary health care provider.
d. Instruct the client to increase fluid intake the day before the MRI.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The magnetic fields of the MRI can deactivate the pacemaker. The nurse would call the primary health care provider and report that the client has a pacemaker so that he or she can order other diagnostic tests. The client does not need an electrocardiogram, cardiac enzymes, or increased fluids. Some newer MRI scanners have elim
 inated the possibility of
complications due to implants, but the nurse needs to notify the primary health care provider.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Planning
KEY: Diagnostic examination, Client safety
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Safety and Infection Control 

12. A nurse assesses a client who is recovering from a myocardial infarction. The clients blood pressure is 140/88 mm Hg. What action would the nurse t A nurse assesses a client who is recovering from a myocardial infarction. The clients blood pressure is 140/88 mm Hg. What action would the nurse t
 ake first?
a. Compare the results with previous blood pressure readings.
b. Increase the intravenous fluid rate because these readings are low.
c. Immediately notify the primary health care provider of the elevated blood pressure.
d. Document the finding in the clients chart as the only action.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The most recent range for normal blood pressure is less than 140 mm Hg systolic and less 
than 90mm Hg diastolic. This clients blood pressure is at the upper range of acceptable, so the nurse would compare the c
lients current reading with those previously recorded before
doing anything else. The reading is not low, so the nurse would not increase IV fluids, nor would the nurse necessarily notify the primary health care
 provider. Documentation is
important, but the nurse first checks previous readings.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Blood pressure, Assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care 

13. A nurse cares for a client who has an 80% blockage of the right coronary artery (RCA) and is 
scheduled for bypass surgery. Which intervention would the nurse be prepared to implement while this client waits for surg
ery?
a. Administration of IV furosemide
b. Initiation of an external pacemaker
c. Assistance with endotracheal intubation
d. Placement of central venous access

[ANS : REMOVED]

The RCA supplies the right atrium, right ventricle, inferior portion of the left ventricle, and atrioventricular (AV) node. It also supplies the sinoatrial node in 50% of people. If the client totally occludes the RCA, the AV node would not function a
nd the client would go into heart
block, so emergency pacing would be available for the client. Furosemide, intubation, and central venous access will not
address the primary complication of RCA occlusion, which is
AV node (and possibly SA node) malfunction.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Planning
KEY: Coronary perfusion
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential

14. A nurse teaches a client with diabetes mellitus and a body mass index of 42 who is at high risk for coronary artery disease. Which statement related to nutrition would the nurse include in this clients teaching? A nurse teaches a client with diabetes mellitus and a body mass index of 42 who is at high risk for coronary artery disease. Which statement related to nutrition would the nurse include in this clients teaching?
a. The best way to lose weight is a high-protein, low-carbohydrate diet.?
b. You should balance weight loss with consuming necessary nutrients.?
c. A nutritionist will provide you with information about your new diet.?
d. If you exercise more frequently, you wont need to change your diet.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Clients at risk for cardiovascular diseases should follow the American Heart Association guidelines to combat obesity and improve cardiac health. T
 he nurse would encourage the
client to eat vegetables, fruits, unrefined whole-grain products, and fat-free dairy products while losing weight. High-protein food items are often high in fat and calories. Although the nutritionist can assist with client education, the nurse would include nutrition education and 
assist the client to make healthy decisions. Exercising and eating nutrient-rich foods are both important components in reduc
ing cardiovascular risk.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Lear
 ning
KEY: Nutrition, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Ph
ysiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

15. A nurse cares for a client who has advanced cardiac disease and states, I am having trouble breathing while Im sleeping at night.? What is the nurses best response? A nurse cares for a client who has advanced cardiac disease and states, I am having trouble breathing while Im sleeping at night.? What is the nurses best response?
a. I will consult your primary health care provider to prescribe a sleep study.?
b. You become hypoxic while sleeping; oxygen therapy via nasal cannula will
help.?
c. A continuous positive airw
ay pressure, or CPAP, breathing mask will help you
breathe at night.?
d. Use pillows to elevate your head and chest while you are sleeping.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

The client is experiencing orthopnea (shortness of breath while lying flat). The nurse would 
teach the client to elevate the head and chest with pillows or sleep in a recliner. A sleep study is not necessary to diagnose this client. Oxygen and CPAP will not help a client with orthopnea.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Heart failure, Orthopnea, Heal
th teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Basic Care and Comfort

16. A nurse cares for a client who is recovering from a myocardial infarction. The client states, I will need to stop eating so muc A nurse cares for a client who is recovering from a myocardial infarction. The client states, I will need to stop eating so muc
h chili to keep that indigestion pain from returning.? What is
the nurses best response? 
a. Chili is high in fat and calories; it would be a good idea to stop eating it.?
b. The primary health care provider has prescribed an antacid every morning.?
c. What do you understand about what happened to you??
d. When did you start experiencing this indigestion??

[ANS : REMOVED]

Clients who experience myocardial infarction often respond with denial, which is a defense mechanism. The nurse would ask the client what he or she
 thinks happened, or what the
illness means to him or her. The other responses do not address the clients misconception about recent pain and the cause of that pain.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Coronary perfusion, Coping
MSC: Client Needs Category: Psychosocial Integrity

17. A nurse prepares a client for cardiac catheterization. The client states, I am afraid I might  A nurse prepares a client for cardiac catheterization. The client states, I am afraid I might 
die.? What is the nurses best response?
a. This is a routine test and t
he risk of death is very low.?
b. Would you like to speak with a chaplain prior to test??
c. Tell me more about your concerns about the test.?
d. What support systems do you have to assist you??

[ANS : REMOVED]

The nurse would discuss the clients feelings and concern
 s related to the cardiac
catheterization. The nurse would not provide false hope or push the clients concerns off on the chaplain. The nurse would address support systems after addressing the clients current issue.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Caring
KEY: Diagnostic examination, Anxiety
MSC: Client Needs Category: Psychosocial Integrity

18. An emergency department nurse triages clients who present with chest discomfort. Which client would the nurse plan to asse An emergency department nurse triages clients who present with chest discomfort. Which client would the nurse plan to asse
ss first?
a. Client who describes pain as a dull ache.
b. Client who reports moderate pain that is worse on inspiration.
c. Client who reports cramping substernal pain.
d. Client who describes intense squeezing pressure across the chest.

[ANS : REMOVED]

All clients who have chest pain would be assessed more thoroughly. To determine which client would be seen first, the nurse must understand common differences in pain descriptions.
Intense stabbing and viselike (squeezing) substernal pain or
 pressure that spreads through the
client s chest, arms, jaw, back, or neck are indicatives of a myocardial infarction. The nurse would plan to see this client fir
st to prevent cardiac cell death. A dull ache, pain that gets
worse with inspiration, and cramping pain are not usually associated with myocardial 
infarction.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Planning
KEY: Cardiovascular disease, Assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care 19. A nurse assesses a client who has aortic regurgitation. In which location in the illustration shown below would the nurse auscultate to best hear a car
 diac murmur related to aortic
regurgitation?
a. Location A
b. Location B
c. Location C
d. Location D

[ANS : REMOVED]

The aortic valve is auscultated in the second intercostal space just to the right of the sternum.
The pulmonic valve would be heard in location B located in the second intercostal space just left of the sternum. The mitral valve would be heard in location D located in the fifth 
intercostal space at the apex of the heart. The tricuspid valve would be heard in location C
located in the fifth intercostal s
pace at the lower left of the sternal border.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated
 Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Cardiovascular assessment, Physical assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: H
ealth Promotion and Maintenance
MULTIPLE RESPONSE

1. A nurse is caring for a client with a history of renal insufficiency who is scheduled for a cardiac catheterization. What actions would the nurse tak A nurse is caring for a client with a history of renal insufficiency who is scheduled for a cardiac catheterization. What actions would the nurse tak
 e prior to the catheterization? ( Select
all that apply.)
a. Assess for allergies to iodine.
b. Administer intravenous fluids.
c. Assess blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and creatinine results.
d. Insert a Foley catheter.
e. Administer a prophylactic antibiotic.
f. Insert a central venous catheter.

[ANS : REMOVED]

If the client has kidney disease, fluids may be given 12 to 24 hours before the procedure for 
renal protection. Hydration would continue after the procedure. The client would be assessed for allergies to iodine, including shellfish; the contrast medium used during the catheterization contains iodine. Baseline renal labs would be assessed. A Foley catheter and central venous catheter are not required for the procedure and would only increase the clients risk for 
infection. Prophylactic antibiotics are not administered prior to a cardiac catheterization.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Cardiovascular assessment, Diagnostic testing
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential

2. An emergency department nurse assesses a female client. Which assessment findings would  An emergency department nurse assesses a female client. Which assessment findings would 
alert the nurse to request a prescription for an electrocardiogram? ( Select all that apply. ) a. Hypertension
b. Fatigue despite adequate rest
c. Indigestion
d. Abdominal pain
e. Shortness of breath

[ANS : REMOVED]

Women may not have chest pain with myocardial infarction, but may feel discomfort or indigestion. They often present with a triad of symptoms
  indigestion or feeling of abdominal
fullness, feeling of chronic fatigue despite adequate rest, and feeling unable to catch their breath. Frequently, women are not diagnosed and therefore are not treated adequately.
Hypertension and abdominal pain are not associated with acute coronary syndrome.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Cardiac electrical conduction, Diagnostic testing
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

3. A nurse assesses a client who i A nurse assesses a client who i
s recovering after a coronary catheterization. Which assessment
findings in the first few hours after the procedure require immediate action by the nurse?
( Select all that apply. )
a. Blood pressure of 140/88 mm Hg
b. Serum potassium of 2.9 mEq/L (2.9 mmol/L)
c. Warmth and redness at the site
d. Expanding groin hematoma
e. Rhythm changes on the car
diac monitor
f. Oxygen saturation 93% on room air

[ANS : REMOVED]

After a cardiac catheterization,
the nurse monitors vital signs, entry site, cardiac function, and
distal circulation. The potassium is very low which can lead to dysrhythmias. An expanding 
hematoma signifies bleeding. Rhythm changes on the monitor are a known complication.
These findings would require prompt action. The clients blood pressure is slightly elevated but does not need immediate action. Warmth and redness at the site would indicate an infection, but this would not be present in the first few hours. The oxygen saturation is slightly 
low but not critical and there is no baseline to compare it to.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Cardiovascular assessment, Diagnostic testing
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential

4. A nurse reviews a clients laboratory results. Which findings would alert the nurse to the  A nurse reviews a clients laboratory results. Which findings would alert the nurse to the 
possibility of atherosclerosis? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Total cholesterol: 280 mg/dL (7.3 mmol/L)
b. High-density lipoprotein cholesterol: 50 mg/dL (1.3 mmol/L)
c. Triglycerides: 200 mg/dL (2.3 mmol/L)
d. Serum albumin: 4 g/dL (5.8 mcmol/L)
e. Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol: 160 mg/dL (4.1 mmol/L)

[ANS : REMOVED]

A lipid panel is often used to screen for cardiovascular risk. Total cholesterol, triglycerides, and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels are all high, indicating higher risk for cardiovascular disease. High-density lipoprotein cholesterol is within the normal range for 
both males and females. Serum albumin is not assessed for atherosclerosis.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Cardiovascular assessment, Laboratory values
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential

5. A nurse prepares a client for a pharmacologic stress echocardiogram. What actions would the nurse take when preparing this client for the procedure? A nurse prepares a client for a pharmacologic stress echocardiogram. What actions would the nurse take when preparing this client for the procedure?
 ( Select all that apply. )
a. Assist the primary health care provider to place a central venous access device.
b. Prepare for continuous blood pressure and pulse monitoring.
c. Administer the clients prescribed beta blocker.
d. Give the client nothing by mouth 3 to 6 hours before the procedure.
e. Explain to the client that do
butamine will simulate exercise for this examination.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Clients receiving a pharmacologic stress echocardiogram will need peripheral venous access and continuous blood pressure
and pulse monitoring. The client must be NPO 3 to 6 hours
prior to the procedure. Education about dobutamine, which will be administered during the procedure, would be performed. Beta blockers are often h
 eld prior to the procedure as they
lower the heart rate and may result in inaccurate results.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Planning
KEY: Cardiovascular assessment, Diagnostic testing
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential

6. A nurse cares for a client who is recovering from a right-sided heart catheterization. For which  A nurse cares for a client who is recovering from a right-sided heart catheterization. For which 
complications of this procedure would the nurse assess? ( Select all that apply. ) a. Thrombophlebitis
b. Stroke
c. Pulmonary embolism
d. Myocardial infarction
e. Cardiac tamponade
f. Dysrhythmias

[ANS : REMOVED]

Complications from a right-sided heart catheterization include thrombophlebitis, pulmonary embolism, and vagal response. Cardiac tamponade is a ri
 sk of both right- and left-sided heart
catheterizations. Stroke, myocardial infarction, and dysrhythmias are complications of left-sided heart catheterization
s.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Assessment, Diagnostic examination
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential
