Chapter 34: Critical Care of Patients With Shock
Ignatavicius: Medical-Surgical Nursing, 10th Edition
MULTIPLE CHOICE

1. A nurse is caring for a client who suffered massive blood loss after trauma. How does the nurse correlate the blood loss with the clients mean arterial pressure (MAP)? A nurse is caring for a client who suffered massive blood loss after trauma. How does the nurse correlate the blood loss with the clients mean arterial pressure (MAP)?
a. It causes vasoconstriction and increased MAP.
b. Lower blood volume lowers MAP.
c. There is no direct correlation to MAP.
d. It raises cardiac output and MAP.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Lower blood volume will decrease MAP. The other answers are not accurate.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Mean arterial blood pressure, Shock
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

2. A nurse is caring for a client after surgery. The clients respiratory rate has increased from 12 A nurse is caring for a client after surgery. The clients respiratory rate has increased from 12
to 18 breaths/min and the pulse
rate increased from 86 to 98 beats/min since the client was last
assessed 4 hours ago. What action by the nurse is best?
a. Ask if the client needs pain medication.
b. Assess using the MEWS score.
c. Document the findings in the clients chart.
d. Increase the rate of the clients IV infusion.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Signs of the earliest stage of shock are subtle and may manifest in slight increases in heart rate, respiratory rate, or blood pressure. Even though these readings are not out of the normal 
range, the nurse would conduct a thorough assessment of the patient, focusing on indicators of perfusion. The MEWS score (M
odified Early Warning Score) was developed to identify
clients at risk for deterioration. The client may need pain medication, but this is not the 
priority at this time. Documentation would be done thoroughly but would be done after the assessment. The nurse would not increase the rate of the IV infusion without an order.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Shock, Nursing assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential

3. The nurse gets the hand-off report on four clients. Which The nurse gets the hand-off report on four clients. Which
 client would the nurse assess first?
a. Client with a blood pressure change of 128/74 to 110/88 mm Hg
b. Client with oxygen saturati
on unchanged at 94%
c. Client with a pulse change of 100 to 88 beats/min
d. Client with urine output of 40 mL/hr for the last 2 hours

[ANS : REMOVED]

This client has a falling systolic blood pressure, rising diastolic blood pressure, and narrowing pulse pressure, all of which may be indications of worseni
 ng perfusion status and possible
shock. The nurse would assess this client first. The client with the unchanged oxygen saturation is stable at this point. Although the client with a change in pulse has a slower rate, it is not an indicator of shock since the pulse is still within the normal range; it may indicate that 
the clients pain or anxiety has been relieved, or he or she is sleeping or relaxing. A urine output of 40 mL/hr is above the
normal range, which is 30 mL/hr.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process:
Assessment
KEY: Shock, Nursing assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Saf
e and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care

4. A nurse is caring for a client after surgery who is restless and apprehensive. The assistive personnel (AP) reports the vital signs and the nurse sees that they are only slightly different from previous readings. What action does the nurse delegate next to the AP? A nurse is caring for a client after surgery who is restless and apprehensive. The assistive personnel (AP) reports the vital signs and the nurse sees that they are only slightly different from previous readings. What action does the nurse delegate next to the AP?
a. Assess the client for pain or discomfort.
b. Measure urine output from the catheter.
c. Reposition the client to the
side.
d. Stay with the client and reassure him or her.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Urine output changes are a sens
itive early indicator of shock. The nurse would delegate
emptying the urinary catheter and measuring output to the AP as a baseline for hourly urine 
output measurements. The AP cannot assess for pain. Repositioning may or may not be effective for decreasing restlessness, but does not take priority over physical assessments.
Reassurance is a therapeutic nursing action, but the nurse needs to do more in this situation.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Shock, Delegation
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential

5. A client is in shock and the nurse prepares to administer insulin for a blood glucose reading of 208 mg/dL (11.6 mmol/L). The A client is in shock and the nurse prepares to administer insulin for a blood glucose reading of 208 mg/dL (11.6 mmol/L). The
spouse asks why the client needs insulin as the client is not a
diabetic. What response by the nurse is best?
a. High glucose is common in shock and needs to be treated.?
b. Some of the medications we are giving are to raise blood sugar.?
c. The IV solution has lots of glucose, which raises blood sugar.?
d. The stress of this illness has made your spouse a diab
 etic.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

High glucose readings are common in shock, and best outcomes are the result of treating them and maintaining glucose readings in the range of 140 to 180 m
g/dL (7.7 to 10 mmol/L.
Medications and IV solutions may raise blood glucose levels, but this is not the most accurate answer. The stress of the illness has not made? the client diabetic.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Shock, Insulin
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

6. A nurse caring for a client notes the following assessments: white blood cell count 3800/mm3 A nurse caring for a client notes the following assessments: white blood cell count 3800/mm3
(3.8 Ã— 109/L), blood glucose level 198 mg/dL (11 mmol/
 L), and temperature 96.2° F (35.6°
C). What action by the nurse takes priority?
a. Document the findings in the clients chart.
b. Give the client warmed blankets for comfort.
c. Notify the primary health care provider immediately.
d. Prepare to administer insulin
per sliding scale.

[ANS : REMOVED]

This client has several indicators of sepsis with systemic inflammatory response. The nurse would notify the primary healt
h care provider immediately. Documentation needs to be
thorough but does not take priority. The client may appreciate warm blankets, but comfort 
measures do not take priority. The client may need insulin if blood glucose is being regulated tightly.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Communication and Documentation
KEY: Shock, Critical rescue
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care 7. A nurse works at a community center for older adults. Wh
 at self-management measure can the
nurse teach the clients to prevent shock?
a. Do not get dehydrated in w
arm weather.
b. Drink fluids on a regular schedule.
c. Seek attention for any lacerations.
d. Take medications as prescribed.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Preventing dehydration in older adults is important because the age-related decrease in the thirst mechanism makes them prone to dehydration. Having older adults drink fluids on a regular schedule will help keep them hydrated without the influence of thirst (or lack of thirst). Telling clients not to get dehydrated is important,
 but not the best answer because it
doesnt give them the tools to prevent it from occurring. Older adults should seek attention for lacerations, but this is not as im
portant an issue as staying hydrated. Taking medications as
prescribed may or may not be related to hydration.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Older adult, Fluid and electrolyte imbalance
MSC: Client Needs Category: Health Promotion and Maintenance

8. A client arrives in the emergency department after being in a car crash with fatalities. The client has a nearly amputated leg that is bleeding profusely. What action by the nurse takes priority? A client arrives in the emergency department after being in a car crash with fatalities. The client has a nearly amputated leg that is bleeding profusely. What action by the nurse takes priority?
a. Apply direct pressure to the bleeding.
b. Ensure the client has a patent airway.
c. Obtain a pulse oximetry reading
d. Start two large-bore IV catheters.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Airway is the priority, followed by breathing (pulse oximetry) and circulation (IVs and direct 
pressure).
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Critical rescue, Shock
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care 9. A client is receiving norepinephrine for shock. What assessment finding best indicates a 
therapeutic effect from this drug?
a. Alert and oriented, answering questions
b. Client denies chest pain or chest pressure
c. IV site without redness or swelling
d. Urine output of 30 mL/hr for 2 hours

[ANS : REMOVED]

Normal cognitive function is a good indicator that the client is receiving the benefits of 
norepinephrine. The brain is very sensitive to changes in oxygenation and perfusion.
Norepinephrine can cause chest
pain as an adverse reaction, so the absence of chest pain is
good but does not indicate therapeutic effect. The IV site is normal. The urine output is 
normal, but only minimally so.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Evaluation
KEY: Shock, Vasoconstrictors
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies 10. A nurse is caring for a client who has a diagnosis of multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) who will be receiving sodium nitroprusside via
 IV infusion. What action by the
nurse causes the charge nurse to intervene?
a. Assessing the IV site before giving the drug
b. Obtaining a programmable (smart?) IV pump
c. Removing the IV bag from the brown plastic cover
d. Taking and recording a baseline set of vital signs

[ANS : REMOVED]

Nitroprusside degrades in the presence of light, so it must be protected by leaving it in the original brown plastic bag when infusing. The other actions are correct
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Communicat
 ion and Documentation
KEY: Shock, Vasoconstrictors
MSC: Client Needs Category: Ph
ysiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies

11. A nurse on the general medical-surgical unit is caring for A nurse on the general medical-surgical unit is caring for
 a client in shock and assesses the
following:
Respiratory rate: 10 breaths/min
Pulse: 136 beats/min
Blood pressure: 92/78 mm Hg
Level of consciousness: responds
to voice
Temperature: 101.5° F (38.5° C)
Urine output for the last 2 hours: 40 mL/hr.
What action by the nurse is best?
a. Transfer the client to the Intensive Care Unit.
b. Continue monitoring every 30 minutes.
c. Notify the unit charge nurse immediately.
d. Call the Rapid Response T
eam.

[ANS : REMOVED]

This client has a MEWS score of 7 (RR: 0, P: 3, SBP: 1, L
 OC: 1, Temperature: 1, UO: 1).
Scores above 5 are associated with a high risk of death and ICU admission. The most important action for the nurse is to notify the Rapid Response Team so that timely
interventions can be initiated. The client most likely will be transferred to the ICU, but an 
order is required. Monitoring the client every 30 minutes is appropriate, but the nurse needs to obtain care for the client. The charge nurse is a valuable resource, but the best action is to notify the Rapid Response Team.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Sepsis, Critical rescue
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Safety and Infection Control 

12. A nurse is caring for several clients at risk for shock. Which laboratory value requires the nurse to communicate with the primary health care provider? A nurse is caring for several clients at risk for shock. Which laboratory value requires the nurse to communicate with the primary health care provider?
a. Creatinine: 0.9 mg/dL (68.6 mcmol/L)
b. Lactate: 5.4 mg/dL (6 mmol/L)
c. Sodium: 150 mEq/L (150 m
mol/L)
d. White blood cell count: 11,000/mm3 (11 Ã— 109/L)

[ANS : REMOVED]

A lactate level of 5.4 mg/dL (6 m
mol/L) is high and is indicative of possible shock. A
creatinine level of 0.9 mg/dL (68.6 mcmol/L) is normal. A sodium level of 150 mEq/L (150
mmol/L) is slightly high but does not need to be communicated. A white blood cell count of 11,000/mm3 (11 Ã— 109/L) is slightly high but is not as critical as the lactate level.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Communication and Documentation
KEY: Shock, Laboratory values
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential

13. A nurse receives hand-off report from the emergency dep A nurse receives hand-off report from the emergency dep
 artment on a new admission
suspected of having septic shock. The clients qSOFA score is 3. What action by the nurse is best?
a. Plan to calculate a full SOFA score on arrival.
b. Contact respiratory therapy about ventilator setup.
c. Arrange protective precautions to be implemented.
d. Call the hospital chaplain to support the family.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The qSOFA score is an abbreviated Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (or quick?). A score of 3 is high and requires the nurse to assess the client further for organ impairment. The client may or may not need a ventilator, but that in not spe
 cified in the score. The client does
not need protective precautions. The clients family may well need support, but the nurse would assess their needs and wishes prior to calling the chaplain.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Shock, Nursing assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential

14. A client is being discharged home after a large myocardial infarction and subsequent coronary artery bypass grafting surgery. The clients sternal wound ha A client is being discharged home after a large myocardial infarction and subsequent coronary artery bypass grafting surgery. The clients sternal wound ha
s not yet healed. What statement
by the client most indicates a higher risk of developing sepsis after discharge?
a. All my friends and neighbors are planning a party for me.?
b. I hope I can get my water turned back on when I get home.?
c. I am going to have my daughter scoop the cat litter box.?
d. My grandkids are so excit
ed to have me coming home!?

[ANS : REMOVED]

All these statements indicate a potential for leading to infection once the client gets back home. A large party might incl
ude individuals who are themselves ill and contagious. Having
litter boxes in the home can expose the client to microbes that can lead to infection. Small children often have upper respiratory infections and poor
 hand hygiene that spread germs.
However, the most worrisome statement is the lack of running water for handwashing and general hygiene and cleaning purposes.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Communication and Documentation
KEY: Shock, Infection control
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential

15. A client with MODS has been started on dobutamine. What assessment finding requires the nurse to communicate with the A client with MODS has been started on dobutamine. What assessment finding requires the nurse to communicate with the
primary health care provider immediately?
a. Blood pressure of 98/68 mm Hg
b. Pedal pulses 1+/4+ bilaterally
c. Report of chest heaviness
d. Urine output of 32 mL/hr

[ANS : REMOVED]

Chest heaviness or pain indicates myocardial ischemia, a possible adverse effect of dobutamine. While taking dobutamine, the oxygen requirements of the heart are increased due to increased myocardial workload, and may cause ischem
 ia. Without knowing the clients
previous blood pressure or pedal pulses, there is not enough information to determine if these are an improvement or not. A u
rine output of 32 mL/hr is acceptable.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Communication and Documentation
KEY: Shock, Vasoconstrictors
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies 
MULTIPLE RESPONSE

1. The nurse studying shock understands that the common signs and symptoms of this condition  The nurse studying shock understands that the common signs and symptoms of this condition 
are directly related to which problems? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Anaerobic metabolism
b. Hyperglycemia
c. Hypotension
d. Impaired renal perfusion
e. Increased systemic perfusi
on

[ANS : REMOVED]

The common signs and symptoms of shock, no matter the cause, are directly related to the effects of anaerobic metabolism and hypotension. Hyper
 glycemia, impaired renal function,
and increased perfusion are not the cause of common signs and symptoms of shock.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Shock, Pathophysiology
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

2. The nurse caring for hospitalized clients includes which actions on their care plans to reduce  The nurse caring for hospitalized clients includes which actions on their care plans to reduce 
the possibility of the clients developing shock? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Assessing and identifying cl
ients at risk
b. Monitoring the daily white blood cell count
c. Performing proper hand hygiene
d. Removing invasive lines as soon as possible
e. Using aseptic technique during procedures
f. Limiting the clients visitors until more stable

[ANS : REMOVED]

Assessing and identifying clients at risk for shock is probably the most critical action the nurse can take to prevent shock from occurring. Proper hand hygiene, using aseptic technique, 
and removing IV lines and catheters are also important actions to prevent shock. Monitoring laboratory values does not preve
nt shock but can indicate a change. Limiting the clients
visitors is not a caring action. The nurse would ensure they perform proper hand hygiene on 
entering and leaving the room and that visitors are not ill themselves.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Shock, Infection control
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Safety and Infection Control 3. The nurse caring frequently for older adults in the hospital is aware of risk factors that place them at a higher risk for shock. For what factors would the
 nurse assess? ( Select all that
apply. )
a. Altered mobility/immobility
b. Decreased thirst response 
c. Diminished immune response
d. Malnutrition
e. Overhydration
f. Use of diuretics

[ANS : REMOVED]

Immobility, decreased thirst response, diminished immune response, malnutrition, and use of diuretics can place the older adult at higher risk of develop
 ing shock. Overhydration is not a
common risk factor for shock.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Shock, Older adult
MSC: Client Needs Category: Health Promotion and Maintenance

4. A client is in the early stages of shock and is restless. What comfort measures does the nurse  A client is in the early stages of shock and is restless. What comfort measures does the nurse 
delegate to the assistive personnel (AP)? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Bringing the client warm b
lankets
b. Giving the client hot tea to drink
c. Massaging the clients painful legs
d. Reorienting the client as needed
e. Sitting with the client for reassurance

[ANS : REMOVED]

The AP can bring the client warm blankets, reorient the client as needed to decrease anxiety, and sit with the client for reassurance. If the nurse assesses the client is safely able to swallow, small amounts of fluids would be allowed. Massaging the legs is not recommended as this can 
dislodge any clots present, which may lead to pulmonary embolism.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Communication and Documentation
KEY: Shock, Nonpharmacologic comfort interventions
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Basic Care and Comfort

5. The nurse is caring for a client with suspected septic shock. What does the nurse prepare to do  The nurse is caring for a client with suspected septic shock. What does the nurse prepare to do 
within 1 hour of the client being identified as possibly having sepsis? ( Select all that apply. ) a. Administer antibiotics.
b. Draw serum lactate levels.
c. Infuse vasopressors.
d. Measure central venous pressure.
e. Obtain blood cultures.
f. Administer rapid bolus of IV crystalloids.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Within the first hour of suspec
ting severe sepsis, the nurse would draw (or facilitate) serum
lactate levels, obtain blood cultures (or other cultures), administer antibiotics (after the 
cultures have been obtained), begin rapid administration of 30 mL/kg crystalloid for hypotension or lactate 4 mmol/L. and administer vasopressors if hypotensive during or after fluid resuscitation to maintain a mean arterial pressure 65 mm Hg. Initiating hemodynamic monitoring would be done after these bundle? measures
 have been accomplished.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Shock, Critical rescue
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physio
 logical Adaptation
