Chapter 04: Common Health Problems of Older Adults
Ignatavicius: Medical-Surgical Nursing, 10th Edition
MULTIPLE CHOICE

1. A nurse learns that the fastest growing subset of the older population is which group? A nurse learns that the fastest growing subset of the older population is which group?
a. Elite old
b. Middle old
c. Old old
d. Young old

[ANS : REMOVED]

The old old is the fastest growing subset of the older population. This is the group comprising those 85 to 99 years of age. The young old are between 65 and 74 years of age; the middle old are between 75 and 84 years of age; and the elite old are over 100 years of age.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Older adults MSC: Client Needs Category: Health Promotion and Maintenance

2. A nurse working with older adults in the community plans programming to improve morale and emotional health in this popul A nurse working with older adults in the community plans programming to improve morale and emotional health in this popul
ation. What activity would best meet this goal?
a. Exercise program to improve physical function
b. Financial planning seminar series for older adults
c. Social events such as dances and group dinners
d. Workshop on prevention from becoming an abuse victim

[ANS : REMOVED]

All activities would be beneficial for the older population in the community. However, failure in performing ones own activities of daily living and participating in society has direct effects on morale and life satisfaction. Those who lose the abilit
 y to function independently often feel
worthless and empty. An exercise program designed to maintain and/or improve physical functioning would best address
this need.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Planning
KEY: Older adult
MSC: Client Needs Category: Psychosocial Integrity

3. A nurse caring for an older client on a medical-surgical unit notices the client reports frequent  A nurse caring for an older client on a medical-surgical unit notices the client reports frequent 
constipation and only wants to eat softer foods such as rice, bread, and puddings. What assessment would the nurse per
form first?
a. Auscultate bowel sounds.
b. Check skin turgor.
c. Perform an oral assessment.
d. Weigh the client.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Poorly fitting dentures and other dental problems are often manifested by a preference for soft foods and constipation from the lack of fiber. The nurse would perform an oral assessment to determine if these problems exist. The other assessments are important, but will not yield 
information specific to the clients food preferences as they relate to constipation.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Older adult, Nutrition
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Basic Care and Comfort

4. A nurse caring for an older adult has provided education on high-fiber foods. Which menu  A nurse caring for an older adult has provided education on high-fiber foods. Which menu 
selection by the client demonstrates a need for further review?
a. Barley soup
b. Black beans
c. White rice
d. Whole-wheat bread

[ANS : REMOVED]

Older adults need 35 to 50 g of fiber a day. White rice is low in fiber. Foods high in fiber 
include barley, beans, and whole-wheat products.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Evaluation
KEY: Older adult, Nutrition
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

5. A nurse is working with an older client admitted with mild dehydration. What teaching does  A nurse is working with an older client admitted with mild dehydration. What teaching does 
the nurse provide to best address this issue?
a. Cut some sodium out of your diet.?
b. Dehydration can cause incontinence.?
c. Have something to drink every 1 to 2 hours.?
d. Take your diuretic in the morning.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Older adults often lose their sense of thirst. Plus older ad
 ults have less body water than
younger people. Since they should drink 1 to 2 L of water a day, the best remedy is to have the older adult drink something each hour or two, whether or not he or she is thirsty. Cutting
some? sodium from the diet will not address this issue and is vague. Although dehydration 
can cause incontinence from the irritation of concentrated urine, this information will not help prevent the problem of dehydration. Instructing the client to take a diuretic in the morning rather than in the evening also will not directly address this issue.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Older adult, Fluid and elect
rolyte balance
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

6. A home health care nurse is planning an exercise program with an older adult who lives at home independently but whose mobility issues prevent much activity outside the home. A home health care nurse is planning an exercise program with an older adult who lives at home independently but whose mobility issues prevent much activity outside the home.
Which exercise regimen would be most beneficial to this adult?
a. Building strength and flexibility
b. Improving exercise endura
nce
c. Increasing aerobic capacity
d. Providing personal training

[ANS : REMOVED]

This older adult is mostly homebound. Exercise regimens for homebound clients include 
things to increase functional fitness and ability for activities of daily living. Strength and flexibility will help the client to be able to maintain independence longer. The other plans are good but will not specifically maintain the clients functional abilities.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process:
Planning
KEY: Older adult, Functional ability
MSC: Client Needs Category: Ph
ysiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential

7. An older adult recently retired and reports being depressed and lonely.? What information would the nurse assess as a priority? An older adult recently retired and reports being depressed and lonely.? What information would the nurse assess as a priority?
a. History of previous depression
b. Previous stressful events 
c. Role of work in the adults life
d. Usual leisure time activitie
s

[ANS : REMOVED]

Establishing and maintaining relationships with others throughout life are especially important to the older persons happiness
. When people retire, they may lose much of their social
network, leading them to feeling depressed and lonely. This loss from a sudden change in 
lifestyle can easily lead to depression. The nurse would first assess the role that work played in the clients life. The other factors can be assessed as well, but this circumstance is commonly seen in the older population.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Older adult, Depression
MSC: Client Needs Category: Psychosocial Integrity

8. A nurse is assessing coping in older women in a support gr A nurse is assessing coping in older women in a support gr
 oup for recent widows. Which
statement by a participant best indicates potential for successful coping?
a. I have had the same best friend for decades.?
b. I think I am coping very well on my own.?
c. My kids come to see me every weekend.?
d. Oh, I have lots of friends at the senior center.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Friendship and support enhance coping. The quality of the relationship is what is most important, however. People who have close, intimate, stable relationships with others in whom they confide are more likely to cope with crisis. The person who is coping well on my own? may actually need resources to help with this trans
 ition. Having children visit is
important but not as important as intimate, long-term friendships. Friends at the senior center? may refer to good acquaintances and not real friends.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Older adult, Coping
MSC: Client Needs Category: Psychosocial Integrity

9. A home health care nurse has conducted a home safety assessment for an older adult. There  A home health care nurse has conducted a home safety assessment for an older adult. There 
are five concrete steps leading out from the front door. Which intervention would be most helpful in keeping the older adul
t safe on the steps?
a. Have the client use a walker or cane on the steps.
b. Teach the client to hold the handrail when using the steps
c. Instruct the client to use the garage door instead.
d. Tell the client to use a two-footed gait on the steps.

[ANS : REMOVED]

As a person ages, he or she may experience a decreased sense of touch. The older adult may not be aware of where his or her foot is on the step. Com
 bined with diminished visual acuity,
this can create a fall hazard. Holding the handrail would help keep the person safer. If the client does not need an assistive device, he or she would not use a cane or walker just on stairs. Using an alternative door may be necessary but does not address making the front steps 
safer. A two-footed gait may not help if the client is unaware of where the foot is on the step.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Older adult, Safety
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Safety and Infection Control 10. An older adult is brought to the emergency department because of sudden onset of confusion.
After the client is stabilized and comfortable, what assessment by the nurse is most important?
a. Assess for orthostatic hypotension.
b. Determine if there are new medications.
c. Evaluate the client for gait abnormalities.
d. Perform a delirium screenin
g test.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Medication side effects and adverse effects are common in the older population. Something as simple as a new antibiotic can c
ause confusion and memory loss. The nurse would determine
if the client is taking any new medications. Assessments for orthostatic hypotension, gait 
abnormalities, and delirium may be important once more is known about the clients condition.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Older adult, Medication safety
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies 11. An older adult client takes medication three times a day an
 d becomes confused about which
medication should be taken at which time. The client refuses to use a pill sorter with slots for different times, saying Those
are for old people.? What action by the nurse would be most
helpful?
a. Arrange medications by time in a drawer.
b. Encourage the client to use easy-open tops.
c. Put color-coded stickers on the bottle caps.
d. Write a list of when to take each medication.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Color-coded stickers are a fast, easy-to-remember system. One color is for morning meds, one for evening meds, and the third color is for nighttime me
 ds. Arranging medications by time in
a drawer might be helpful if the person doesnt accidentally put them back in the wrong spot.
Easy-open tops are not related. Writing a list might be helpful, but not if it gets misplaced.
With stickers on the medication bottles themselves, the reminder is always with the 
medication.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Older adult, Medication safety
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Safety and Infection Control 

12. An older adult client is in the hospital. The client is ambulatory and independent. What intervention by the nurse would be most helpful in preve An older adult client is in the hospital. The client is ambulatory and independent. What intervention by the nurse would be most helpful in preve
 nting falls in this client?
a. Keep the light on in the bathroom at night.
b. Order a bedside commode for the client.
c. Put the client on a toileting schedule.
d. Use side rails to keep the client in bed.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Although this older adult is independent and ambulatory, being hospitalized can create 
confusion. Getting up in a dark, unfamiliar environment can contribute to falls. Keeping the light on in the bathroom will he
lp reduce the likelihood of falling. The client does not need a
commode or a toileting schedule. Side rails used to keep the client in bed are considered restraints and would not be used in that fashion.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Older adult, Fall prevention
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Safety and Infection Control 13. An older client had hip replacement surgery and the surgeon prescribed morphine sulfate for pain. The client is allergic to morphine and reports pain and muscle spasms. When the nurse 
calls the surgeon, which medication would he or she suggest in place of the morphine?
a. Cyclobenzaprine
b. Hydromorphone hydrochloride
c. Ketorolac
d. Meperidine

[ANS : REMOVED]

Cyclobenzaprine (used for muscle spasms), ketorolac, and meperidine (both used for pain) are all on the Beers list of potentially inappropriate medications for use in older adults and would not be suggested. The nurse would suggest hydromorphone hydrochloride.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Comm
unication and Documentation
KEY: Older adult, Medication safety
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Pharm
 acological and Parenteral Therapies

14. A nurse admits an older adult f A nurse admits an older adult f
rom a home environment. The client lives with an adult son
and daughter-in-law. The client has urine burns on the skin, no dentures, and several pressure 
injuries. What action by the nurse is most appropriate?
a. Ask the family how these problems occurred.
b. Call the police department and file a report.
c. Notify Adult Protective Services.
d. Report the findings as per agency policy.

[ANS : REMOVED]

These findings are suspicious for abuse. Health care prov
 iders are mandatory reporters for
suspected abuse. The nurse would notify social work, case management, or whomever is designated in facility policies. T
hat person can then assess the situation further. If the police
need to be notified, that is the person who will notify them. Adult Protective Services is 
notified in the community setting.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Communication and Documentation
KEY: Older adult, Abuse
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Enviro
 nment: Management of Care

15. A nurse caring for an older clie A nurse caring for an older clie
nt in the hospital is concerned the client is not competent to
give consent for upcoming surgery. What action by the nurse is best?
a. Call Adult Protective Services.
b. Discuss concerns with the health care team.
c. Do not allow the client to sign the consent.
d. Have the clients family sign the consent.

[ANS : REMOVED]

In this situation, each facility will have a policy designed for assessing competence. The nurse would bring these concerns to an interprofessional care t
 eam meeting. There may be
physiologic reasons for the client to be temporarily too confused or incompetent to give consent. If an acute condition i
s ruled out, the staff would follow the legal procedure and
policies in their facility and state for determining competence. The key is to bring the 
concerns forward. Calling Adult Protective Services is not appropriate at this time. Signing the consent would wait until competence is determined unless it is an emergency, in which case the next of kin can sign if there are grave doubts as to the clients ability to provide consent. Simply not allowing the client to sign does not a
 ddress the problem.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integ
rated Process: Communication and Documentation
KEY: Older adult, Autonomy
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Enviro
 nment: Management of Care
MULTIPLE RESPONSE

1. A nurse working in an Acute Care of the Elderly unit learns that frailty in the older population includes which components? ( Select all that apply. ) A nurse working in an Acute Care of the Elderly unit learns that frailty in the older population includes which components? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Dementia
b. Exhaustion
c. Slowed physical activity
d. Weakness
e. Weight gain
f. Frequent illness

[ANS : REMOVED]

Frailty is a syndrome consisting of unintentional weight l
 oss, slowed physical activity and
exhaustion, and weakness. Weight gain and dementia are not part of this syndrome. Frequent illness could occur due to frailty, but is also not part of the syndrome.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Older adult, Frailty
MSC: Client Needs Category: Health Promotion and Maintenance

2. A home health care nurse assesses an older adult for the intake of nutrients needed in larger amounts than in younger adult A home health care nurse assesses an older adult for the intake of nutrients needed in larger amounts than in younger adult
s. Which foods found in an older adults kitchen might indicate
an adequate intake of these nutrients? ( Select all that apply. )
a.
1% milk
b. Carrots
c. Lean ground beef
d. Oranges
e. Vitamin D supplements 
f. Cheese sticks

[ANS : REMOVED]

Older adults need increased amounts of calcium; vitamins
 A, C, and D; and fiber. Milk and
cheese have calcium; carrots have vitamin A; vitamin D supplement has vitamin D; and oranges have vitamin C. Lean ground beef is healthier than more fatty cuts, but does not contain these needed nutrients.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Older adults, Nutrition
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Basic Care and Comfort

3. A nurse working with older adu A nurse working with older adu
lts assesses them for common potential adverse medication
effects. For what does the nurse assess? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Constipation
b. Dehydration
c. Mania
d. Urinary incontinence
e. Weakness
f. Anorexia

[ANS : REMOVED]

Common adverse medication effects include constipation/impaction, dehydration, anorexia, and weakness. Mania and incont
inence are not among the common adverse effects, although
urinary retention is.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Older adult, Adverse medication effects
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies 

4. A nurse manager institutes the Fulmer SPICES Framework as part of the routine assessment of older adults in the hospital. The nursing staff assesses for which factors? ( Select all that apply. ) A nurse manager institutes the Fulmer SPICES Framework as part of the routine assessment of older adults in the hospital. The nursing staff assesses for which factors? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Confusion
b. Evidence of abuse
c. Incontinence
d. Problems with behavior
e. Sleep disorders

[ANS : REMOVED]

SPICES stands for sleep disorders, problems with eating or feeding, incontinence, confusion, and evidence of falls.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated
 Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Older adult, Nursing assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Ph
ysiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential

5. A visiting nurse is in the home of an older adult and note A visiting nurse is in the home of an older adult and note
 s a 7-lb weight loss since last
months visit. What actions would the nurse perform first? ( Select all that apply. ) a. Assess the clients ability to drive or transportation alternatives.
b. Determine if the client has dentures that fit appropriately.
c. Encourage the client to continue the current exercise p
 lan.
d. Have the client complete a 3-day diet recall diary.
e. Teach the client about proper nutrition in the older population.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Assessment is the first step of the nursing process and would be completed prior to intervening. Asking about transportation to get food, dentures, and normal food patterns would be part of an appropriate assessment for the client. There is no information in the 
question about the older adult needing to lose weight, so encouraging him or her to continue the current exercise regimen is
premature and may not be appropriate. Teaching about proper
nutrition is a good idea, but teaching needs to be tailored to the clients needs, which the nurse does not yet know.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Older adult, Nutrition
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

6. A hospitalized older adult has been assessed at high risk for skin breakdown. Which actions does the registered nurse (RN) delegate to the assistive personnel (AP)? ( Select all that apply. )  A hospitalized older adult has been assessed at high risk for skin breakdown. Which actions does the registered nurse (RN) delegate to the assistive personnel (AP)? ( Select all that apply. ) 
a. Assess skin redness when turning.
b. Document Braden Scale resu
lts.
c. Keep the clients skin dry.
d. Obtain a pressure-relieving mattress.
e. Turn the client every 2 hours.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The nurses aide or AP can assist in keeping the clients skin dry, order a special mattress on direction of the RN, and turn the client on a schedule. Assessing the skin is a nursing responsibility, although the aide would be directed to report any redness noticed.
Documenting the Braden Scale results is the RNs respon
 sibility as the RN is the one who
performs that assessment.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Communication and Documentation
KEY: Older adult, Tissue integrity
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care 7. A nurse admits an older adult to the hospital who lives at home with family. The nurse 
assesses that the client is malnourished. What actions by the nurse are best? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Contact Adult Protective Services or hospital social work.
b. Request the primary health care provider prescribes t
 ube feedings.
c. Perform and document results of a Braden Scale assessment.
d. Request a dietary consultation from the health care provider.
e. Suggest a high-protein oral supplement between meals.
f. Assess the clients own teeth or the dentures for proper fit.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Malnutrition in the older population is multifactorial and has several potential adverse outcomes. Appropriate actions by the nurse include asses
 sing the clients risk for skin
breakdown with the Braden Scale, requesting a consultation with a dietitian, suggesting a high-protein meal supplement, and assessing the clients dentures or own teeth. There is no evidence that the client is being abused or needs a feeding tube at this time.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Older adult, Nutrition
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care 
