Chapter 52: Concepts of Care for Patients With Inflammatory Intestinal Disorders Ignatavicius: Medical-Surgical Nursing, 10th Edition
MULTIPLE CHOICE

1. The nurse assesses a client who has appendicitis. Which assessment finding would the nurse expect? The nurse assesses a client who has appendicitis. Which assessment finding would the nurse expect?
a. Severe, steady right lower quadrant pain
b. Abdominal pain associated with nausea and vomiting
c. Marked peristalsis and hyperactive bowel sounds
d. Abdominal pain that increases with knee flexion

[ANS : REMOVED]

Right lower quadrant pain, specifically at McBurneys point, is characteristic of appendicitis.
Usually if nausea and vomiting begin first, the client has gastroenteritis. Marked peristalsis 
and hyperactive bowel sounds are not indicative of appendicitis. Abdominal pain due to appendicitis decreases with kn
ee flexion.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated
 Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Appendicitis, Assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Ph
ysiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

2. The nurse reviews the laboratory results for a client who has possible appendicitis. Which laboratory test finding would the nurse expect? The nurse reviews the laboratory results for a client who has possible appendicitis. Which laboratory test finding would the nurse expect?
a. Decreased potassium level
b. Increased sodium level 
c. Elevated leukocyte count
d. Decreased thrombocyte co
unt

[ANS : REMOVED]

Appendicitis is an acute inflammatory disorder that frequently results in elevation of leukocytes (white blood cells).
Serum electrolytes are not affected because the client does not
usually have diarrhea. Thrombocyte (platelet) count is unrelated to this GI disorder.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Appendicitis, Diagnostic tests
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Adaptation

3. The nurse teaches a client who has viral gastroenteritis. Which dietary instruction would the nurse include in the health teaching? The nurse teaches a client who has viral gastroenteritis. Which dietary instruction would the nurse include in the health teaching?
a. Drink plenty of fluids to prevent dehydration.?
b. You should only drink 1 L of fluids daily.?
c. Increase your protein intake by drinking more milk.?
d. Sips of cola or tea may help to relieve your nausea.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

The client should drink plenty of fluids to prevent dehydration. Milk products may not be tolerated. Caffeinated beverages increase intestinal motility and should be avoided.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Gastroenteritis, Nutritional interventions
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Basic Care and Comfort 

4. The nurse assesses a client with gastroenteritis. What risk The nurse assesses a client with gastroenteritis. What risk
 factor would the nurse consider as
the most likely cause of this disorder?
a. Consuming too much fruit
b. Consuming fried or pickled foods
c. Consuming dairy products
d. Consuming raw seafood

[ANS : REMOVED]

Raw seafood is often contaminated and unless cooked can would most likely cause gastroenteritis. Any of the other food can also become contaminated if not stored properly or contaminated by workers/cooks who contaminate these foods.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Gastroenteritis, Risk facto
rs
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation 

5. The nurse assesses a client who is hospitalized with an exacerbation of Crohn disease. Which assessment finding would the nurse expect? The nurse assesses a client who is hospitalized with an exacerbation of Crohn disease. Which assessment finding would the nurse expect?
a. Positive Murphy sign with rebound tenderness to palpitation
b. Dull, hypoactive bowel sounds in the lower abdominal quadrants
c. High-pitched, rushing bow
el sounds in the right lower quadrant
d. Reports of abdominal cramping that is worse at night

[ANS : REMOVED]

The nurse expects high-pitched,
rushing bowel sounds due to narrowing of the bowel lumen in
Crohn disease. A positive Murphy sign is indicative of gallbladder disease, and rebound 
tenderness often indicates peritonitis. Dullness in the lower abdominal quadrants and hypoactive bowel sounds is not commonly found with Crohn disease. Nightly worsening of abdominal cramping is not consistent with Crohn disease.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Crohn disease, Assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation 

6. After teaching a patient with diverticular disease, a nurse assesses the clients understanding. After teaching a patient with diverticular disease, a nurse assesses the clients understanding.
Which menu selection indicates t
he client correctly understood the teaching?
a. Roasted chicken with rice pilaf and a cup of coffee with cream
b. Spaghetti with meat sauce, a fresh fruit cup, and hot tea
c. Garden salad with a cup of bean soup and a glass of low-fat milk
d. Baked fish with steamed carrots and a glass of apple juice

[ANS : REMOVED]

Clients who have diverticular disease are prescribed a low-residue diet. Whole grains (rice pilaf), uncooked fruits and vegetables (salad, fresh fruit cup), and high-fiber foods (cup [240
mL] of bean soup) would be avoided with a low-residue d
 iet. Canned or cooked vegetables
are appropriate. Apple juice does not contain fiber and is acceptable for a low-residue diet.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Diverticular disease, Nutritional interventions
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Basic Care and Comfort 

7. A nurse cares for a young client with a new ileostomy. The client states, I cannot go to prom with an ostomy.? How would the nurse respond? A nurse cares for a young client with a new ileostomy. The client states, I cannot go to prom with an ostomy.? How would the nurse respond?
a. Sure you can. Purchase a prom dress one size larger to hide the ostomy
appliance.?
b. The pouch wont be as noticeable if you avoid broccoli and carbonated drinks 
prior to the prom.?
c. Lets talk to the ostomy nur
se about options for ostomy supplies and dress
styles.?
d. You can remove the pouch from your ostomy applia
 nce when you are at the prom
so that it is less noticeable.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

The ostomy nurse is a valuable resource for patients, provi
 ding suggestions for supplies and
methods to manage the ostomy. A larger dress size will not necessarily help hide the ostomy appliance. Avoiding broccoli and carbonated drinks does not offer reassurance for the client.
Ileostomies have an almost constant liquid effluent, so pouch removal during the prom is not 
feasible.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Caring
KEY: Ostomy care, Coping
MSC: Client Needs Category: Psychosocial Integrity

8. The nurse teaches a client about The nurse teaches a client about
how to prevent transmission of gastroenteritis. Which
statement by the nurse indicates a need for further teaching?
a. I wont let anyone use my dishes or glasses.?
b. Ill wash my hands with antibacterial soap.?
c. Ill keep my bathroom extra clean.?
d. Ill cook all the meals for my family.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

All of these statements are correct except for that the client should not prepare meals for others to help prevent transmission of gastroenteritis.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integ
rated Process: Nursing Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Gastroenteritis, Infection control
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Enviro
 nment: Safety and Infection Control

9. After teaching a client who is prescribed adalimumab for severe ulcerative colitis (UC), the nurse assesses the clients understanding. Which statement made by the client indicates a  After teaching a client who is prescribed adalimumab for severe ulcerative colitis (UC), the nurse assesses the clients understanding. Which statement made by the client indicates a 
need for further teaching?
a. I will avoid large crowds and people who are sick.?
b. I will take this medication with my breakfast each morning.?
c. Nausea and vomiting are common side effects of thi
 s drug.?
d. I should wash my hands after I play with my dog.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Adalimumab is an immune modulator that is given via subc
 utaneous injection. It does not
need to be given with food or milk. Nausea and vomiting are two common side effects.
Adalimumab can cause immune suppression, so clients receiving the medication should avoid large crowds and people who are sick, and should practice good handwashing.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Ulcerative colitis, Drug therapy
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies 

10. The nurse is caring for a client who is prescribed sulfasalazine. Which question would the nurse ask the client before start The nurse is caring for a client who is prescribed sulfasalazine. Which question would the nurse ask the client before start
ing this drug?
a. Are you taking Vitamin C or B?
b. Do you have any allergy to sulfa drugs??
c. Can you swallow pills pretty easily??
d. Do you have insurance to cover this drug??

[ANS : REMOVED]

Sulfasalazine is a sulfa drug given for clients who have ulcerative colitis. However, it should not be given to those who have an allergy to sulfa and sulfa drugs to prevent a hypersensitivity reaction.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Ulcerative colitis, Drug therapy
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies 11. A nurse assesses a client who has ulcerative colitis and severe diarrhea. Which assessment would the nurse complete first?
a. Inspection of oral mucosa
b. Recent dietary intake
c. Heart rate and rhythm
d. Percussion of abdomen 

[ANS : REMOVED]

Although the client with severe diarrhea may experience skin irritation and hypovolemia, the client is most at risk for cardiac dysrhythmias secondary to
 potassium and magnesium loss
from severe diarrhea. The client would have her or his electrolyte levels monitored, and electrolyte replacement may be necessary. Oral mucosa inspection, recent dietary intake, and abdominal percussion are important parts of physical assessment but are lower priority for this 
patient than heart rate and rhythm.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Ulcerative colitis, Assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care 12. A nurse reviews the electronic health record of a client who has Crohn disease and a draining 
fistula. Which documentation would alert the nurse to urgently contact the primary health care provider for additional prescriptions?
a. Serum potassium of 2.6 mEq/L (2.6 mmol/L)
b. Client ate 20% of breakfast meal
c. White blood cell count of 8200/mm3 (8.2 × 109/L)
d. Clients weight decreased by 3 l
b (1.4 kg)

[ANS : REMOVED]

Fistulas place the patient with Crohn disease at risk for hypokalemia which can lead to serious dysrhythmias. This potassium l
evel is low and would cause the nurse to intervene. The white
blood cell count is normal. The other two findings are abnormal and also warrant intervention, 
but the potassium level takes priority.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Analysis
KEY: Crohn disease, Complications
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduc
 tion of Risk Potential

13. A client is preparing to have a l A client is preparing to have a l
aparoscopic restorative proctocolectomy with ileo pouch-anal
anastomosis (RCA-IPAA). Which preoperative health teaching would the nurse include?
a. You will have to wear an appliance for your permanent ileostomy.?
b. You should be able to have better bowel continence after healing occurs.?
c. You will have a large abdominal incision that will require irrigation.?
d. This procedure can be performed under general or r
 egional anesthesia.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

A RCA-IPAA can improve bowel continence although leakage may still occur for some clients. The procedure is a 2-step process performed und
 er general anesthesia using a
laparoscope which does not require an abdominal incision or permanent ileostomy.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Ulcerative colitis, Perioperative care
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation 14. After teaching a client who has diverticulitis, a nurse assesses the clients understanding.
Which statement made by the client indicates a need for further teaching?
a. Ill ride my bike or take a long walk at least three times a week.?
b. I must try to include at least 25 g of fiber in my diet every day.?
c. I will take a laxative nightly at bedtime to avoid bec
 oming constipated.?
d. I should use my legs rather than my back muscles when I lift heavy objects.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Laxatives are not recommended for patients with diverticu
 litis because they can increase
pressure in the bowel, causing additional outpouching of the lumen. Exercise and a high-fiber diet are recommended for clients with diverticulitis because they promote regular bowel function. Using the leg muscles rather than the back for lifting prevents abdominal straining.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Evaluation
KEY: Diverticulitis, Self-management
MSC: Client Needs Category: Health Promotion and Maintenance

15. The nurse plans care for a client The nurse plans care for a client
with Crohn disease who has a heavily draining fistula. Which
intervention would be the nurses priority action?
a. Low-fiber diet
b. Skin protection
c. Antibiotic administration
d. Intravenous glucocorticoids

[ANS : REMOVED]

Protecting the clients skin is the priority action for a patient who has a heavily draining fistula. Intestinal fluid enzymes are caustic and can cause skin breakdown or fungal infections 
if the skin is not protected. The plan of care for a client who has Crohn disease also includes adequate nutrition focused on hi
gh-calorie, high-protein, high-vitamin, and low-fiber meals,
antibiotic administration, and glucocorticoids.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Planning and Implementation
KEY: Crohn disease, Nursing interventions
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential 

16. The nurse assesses a patient who is recovering from an ileostomy placement. Which assessment finding would alert th The nurse assesses a patient who is recovering from an ileostomy placement. Which assessment finding would alert th
e nurse to immediately contact the primary health care
provider?
a. Pale and bluish stoma
b. Liquid stool
c. Ostomy pouch intact
d. Blood-tinged output

[ANS : REMOVED]

The nurse would assess the stoma for color and contact the primary health care provider if the stoma is pale, bluish, or dark because these changes indicat
 e possible lack of perfusion. The
nurse would expect the client to have an intact ostomy pouch with dark green liquid stool that may contain some blood.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Analysis
KEY: Ostomy care, Assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care 

17. A nurse cares for a client with a new ileostomy. The client states, I dont think my friends will accept me with this ostom A nurse cares for a client with a new ileostomy. The client states, I dont think my friends will accept me with this ostom
y.? How would the nurse respond?
a. Your friends will be happy that you are alive.?
b. Tell me more about your concerns.?
c. A therapist can help you resolve your concerns.?
d. With time you will accept your new body.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Social anxiety and apprehension are common in clients with a new ileostomy. The nurse would encourage the client to discuss concerns by restating them in an open-ended manner.
The nurse would not minimize the clients concerns or provide false reassurance.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Caring
KEY: Ostomy care, Coping
MSC: Client Needs Category: Psychosocial Integrity
MULTIPLE RESPONSE

1. The nurse teaches a community group ways to prevent Escherichia coli infection. Which  The nurse teaches a community group ways to prevent Escherichia coli infection. Which 
statements would the nurse include in this groups teaching? ( Select all that apply. ) a. Wash your hands after any c
ontact with animals.?
b. It is not necessary to buy a meat thermometer.?
c. Stay away from people who are ill with diarrhea.?
d. Use separate cutting boards for meat and vegetables.?
e. Avoid swimming in backyard pools and using hot tubs.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Washing hands after contact with animals and using separate cutting boards for meat and other foods will help prevent E. coli infection. The other statements are not related to preventing E. coli infection. 
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integ
rated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Gastroenteritis, Infection control
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Enviro
 nment: Safety and Infection Control

2. The nurse assesses a client wit The nurse assesses a client wit
h ulcerative colitis. Which complications are paired correctly
with their physiologic processes? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Lower gastrointestinal bleeding erosion of the bowel wall
b. Abscess formation localized pockets of infection develop in the ulcerated bowel lining
c. Toxic megacolon transmural inflammation resultin
 g in pyuria and fecaluria
d. Nonmechanical bowel obstruction paralysis of colon resulting from colorectal cancer
e. Fistula dilation and colonic ileus caused by paralysis of the colon

[ANS : REMOVED]

Lower GI bleeding can lead to
erosion of the bowel wall. Abscesses are localized pockets of
infection that develop in the ulcerated bowel lining. Nonmechanical bowel obstruction is 
paralysis of the colon that results from colorectal cancer. When the inflammation is transmural, fistulas can occur between the bowel and bladder resulting in pyuria and fecaluria.
Paralysis of the colon causing dilation and subsequent colonic ileus is known as a toxic megacolon.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Analysis
KEY: Ulcerative colitis, Complications
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physio
 logical Adaptation

3. A nurse assesses a patient who has celiac disease. Which signs and symptoms would the nurse expect? ( Select all that apply. ) A nurse assesses a patient who has celiac disease. Which signs and symptoms would the nurse expect? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Weight gain
b. Anorexia
c. Constipation
d. Anal fistula
e. Abdominal pain

[ANS : REMOVED]

Signs and symptoms of celiac disease include weight los
 s, anorexia, constipation, and
abdominal pain. Anal fistulas are not associated with celiac disease.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Celiac disease, Assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation 4. A nurse cares for an older adult who is admitted to the hospital with complications of 
diverticulitis. Which actions would the nurse include in the clients plan of care? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Administer pain medications as prescribed.
b. Palpate the abdomen for distention.
c. Assess for sudden changes in mental status.
d. Provide the client with a high-fiber diet.
e. Evaluate stools for occult blood.

[ANS : REMOVED]

When caring for an older adult who has diverticulitis, the nurse would administer analgesics as prescribed, palpate the abdomen for distention and tende
 rness, assess for confusion and
sudden changes in mental status, and check stools for occult or frank bleeding. A low-fiber/residue diet would be provided when symptoms are present and a high-fiber diet when inflammation resolves. 
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Planning and Implementation
KEY: Diverticulitis, Nursing interventions
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation 

5. A nurse prepares to discharge a A nurse prepares to discharge a
client who is newly diagnosed with a chronic inflammatory
bowel disease. Which questions would the nurse ask in preparation for discharge? ( Select all 
that apply. )
a. Does your gym provide yoga classes?
b. When should you contact your provider?
c. What do you plan to eat for dinner?
d. Do you have a scale for daily weights?
e. How many bathrooms are i
n your home?

[ANS : REMOVED]

A home assessment for a client who has a chronic inflammatory bowel disease would include identifying adequacy and avail
ability of bathroom facilities, opportunities for rest and
relaxation, and the clients knowledge of dietary therapy, and when to contact the primary 
health care provider. The client does not need to perform daily weights.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Chronic inflammatory bowel disorder, Transition management
MSC: Client Needs Category: Health Promotion and Maintenance

6. After teaching a patient who has a permanent ileostomy, a nurse assesses the clients understanding. Which dietary items chosen for dinner ind After teaching a patient who has a permanent ileostomy, a nurse assesses the clients understanding. Which dietary items chosen for dinner ind
 icate that the client needs further
teaching? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Corn
b. String beans
c. Carrots
d. Wheat rice
e. Squash

[ANS : REMOVED]

Clients with an ileostomy should be cautious of high-fiber and high-cellulose foods including corn, string beans, and rice. Carrots and squash are low-fiber items.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Ileostomy care, Nutritiona
l interventions
MSC: Client Needs Category: Health Promotion and Maintenance

7. A nurse cares for a patient who has a chronic inflammatory bowel disease. Which actions would the nurse take to prevent skin excoriation? ( Select all that apply. ) a. Cleanse the perineum with an antibacterial soap. A nurse cares for a patient who has a chronic inflammatory bowel disease. Which actions would the nurse take to prevent skin excoriation? ( Select all that apply. ) a. Cleanse the perineum with an antibacterial soap.
b. Use medicated wipes instead of toilet paper.
c. Identify foods that decreas
e constipation.
d. Apply a thin coat of aloe cream to the perineum.
e. Gently pat the perineum dry after cleansing.

[ANS : REMOVED]

To prevent skin excoriation from frequent bowel movements associated with inflammatory bowel disease, the nurse would encourage good skin care
 with a mild soap and water and
gently patting the area dry after each bowel movement. Using medicated wipes instead of toilet paper and applying a thin coat of aloe cream are appropriate. The client should identify and avoid foods that increase diarrhea. Antibacterial soaps are harsh and should not be used.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Planning and Implementation
KEY: Chronic inflammatory bowel disease, Nursing interventions
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Basic Care and Comfort 

8. The nurse is caring for a client The nurse is caring for a client
who is diagnosed with celiac disease and preparing to start
natalizumab. Which health teaching would the nurse include in the teaching? ( Select all that 
apply. )
a. Need to have drug administered by a primary health care provider.
b. Need to avoid crowds and individuals who have infection.
c. Need to report injection reactions such as redness and swelling.
d. Awareness of a rare but potentially fatal drug complication.
e. Need to report any signs and s
ymptoms of infection immediately.

[ANS : REMOVED]

All of these choices are correct except that the drug is given intravenously. Therefore, there is no need to teach the client to re
port injection reactions because the client does not
self-administer the medication subcutaneously. Natalizumab can cause progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML), but it is a very rare disorder causing cognitive, sensory, and/or motor changes.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Celiac disease, Drug therapy
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies 9. The nurse is caring for a client with peritonitis. What ass
 essment findings would the nurse
expect? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Nausea and vomiting
b. Distended rigid abdomen 
c. Abdominal pain
d. Bradycardia
e. Decreased urinary output
f. Fever

[ANS : REMOVED]

Peritonitis is an acute inflammatory disorder. Therefore, the client would likely have all of these signs and symptoms but would have tachycardia ra
 ther than bradycardia due to
dehydration from fever.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Peritonitis, Assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation 
