Chapter 55: Concepts of Care for Patients With Malnutrition: Undernutrition and Obesity
Ignatavicius: Medical-Surgical Nursing, 10th Edition
MULTIPLE CHOICE

1. The nurse is performing an initial assessment and notes that the client weighs 186.4 lb (84.7 The nurse is performing an initial assessment and notes that the client weighs 186.4 lb (84.7
kg). Six months ago, the client weighed 211.8 lb (96.2 kg)
 . What action by the nurse is
appropriate?
a. Ask the client if the weight loss was intentional.
b. Determine if there are food allergies or intolerances.
c. Perform a comprehensive nutritional assessment.
d. Perform a rapid bedside bl
ood glucose test.

[ANS : REMOVED]

This client has had a 12% weight loss. The nurse first determines if the weight loss was intentional. If not, then the nur
se proceeds to a comprehensive nutritional assessment. Food
intolerances are part of this assessment. Depending on risk factors and other findings, a blood 
glucose test may be warranted.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Nutrition, Assessment 
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential 2. The nurse assesses a newly admitted client and documents a body mass index (BMI) of 31.2.
What does this value indicate to the nurse?
a. The client has a healthy weight.
b. The client is underweight.
c. The client is obese.
d. The client is overweight.

[ANS : REMOVED]

A BMI of over 30 indicates that the client is obese.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Analysis
KEY: Nutrition, Assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation 

3. A nurse is reviewing laboratory values for several clients. Which value indicates a need for a nutritional assessment? A nurse is reviewing laboratory values for several clients. Which value indicates a need for a nutritional assessment?
a. Client with an albumin of 3.5 g/dL
b. Client with a cholesterol of 142 mg/dL (3.7 mmol/L)
c. Client with a hemoglobin of 9.8 mg/dL (98 mmol/L)
d. Client with a prealbumin of 28 mg/dL

[ANS : REMOVED]

A cholesterol level below 160 mg/dL (4 mmol/L) is a possible indicator of undernutrition, so this client would be at highest priority for a nutritional assessment. The albumin and 
prealbumin levels are normal. The low hemoglobin could be from several problems, including dietary deficiencies, hemodilut
ion, and bleeding.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process:
Assessment
KEY: Nutrition, Laboratory tests
MSC: Client Needs Category: Ph
ysiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential

4. A client is receiving bolus feedings through a small-bore nasoduodenal tube. What action by the nurse is the priority? A client is receiving bolus feedings through a small-bore nasoduodenal tube. What action by the nurse is the priority?
a. Auscultate lung sounds after each feeding.
b. Weigh the client daily on the same scale.
c. Check tube placement every 8 hours.
d. Check tube placement befo
re each feeding.

[ANS : REMOVED]

For bolus feedings, the nurse checks placement of the tube per institutional policy prior to each feeding, which is more of
ten than every 8 hours during the day. Auscultating lung
sounds is also important, but this may indicate a complication that has already occurred.
Weighing the client is important to determine if nutritional goals are being met, but it is not the priority.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Undernutrition, Total enteral nutrition
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Safety and Infection Control 5. A client receiving continuous tube feeding to provide tota
 l enteral nutrition begins vomiting.
What action by the nurse is most appropriate?
a. Administer an antiemetic.
b. Check the patients gastric residual.
c. Hold the feeding until the vomiting subsides.
d. Reduce the rate of the tube feeding by half.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The nurse would stop the feeding until the vomiting subsides and consult with the registered dietitian nutritionist or primary health care provider about the rate at which to restart the feeding. Giving an antiemetic is not appropriate. After vomiting, a gastric residual will not be accurate. The nurse would not continue to feed the patient
 while he or she is vomiting.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integ
rated Process: Nursing Process: Planning and Implementation
KEY: Undernutrition, Total enteral nutrition
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation 6. The nurse inserts a small-bore nasoduodenal tube for a client who is undernourished. What priority nursing action is required prior to starting the continuous tube feeding to confirm 
correct tube placement?
a. Assess for carbon dioxide us
ing capnometry.
b. Perform pH testing of gastric fluid.
c. Auscultate over the epigastric area.
d. Request an x-ray before starting the feeding.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The most reliable assessment to determine correct feedin
 g tube placement in to have an x-ray
to visualize where the tip of the tube is located.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Total enteral nutrition, Assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Basic Care and Comfort

7. The nurse is caring for an older client receiving total enteral nutrition via a small-bore  The nurse is caring for an older client receiving total enteral nutrition via a small-bore 
nasoduodenal tube. For what priority complication would the nurse assess?
a. Intermittent diarrhea
b. Cholecystitis
c. Aspiration pneumonia
d. Peptic ulcer disease

[ANS : REMOVED]

Aspiration pneumonia is one of the most common complications in older adults who have 
enteral nutrition via a nasoduodenal tube because their gag reflex is often decreased.
Intermittent diarrhea may also o
ccur, but that is not potentially life threatening if the client
does not become dehydrated. 
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Undernutrition, Total enteral nutrition
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation 

8. The nurse is managing care for a client receiving feeding through a gastrostomy tube (G-tube). What assessment would the nurse perform? The nurse is managing care for a client receiving feeding through a gastrostomy tube (G-tube). What assessment would the nurse perform?
a. Check the skin around the tube insertion site.
b. Weigh the client every shift with the same scale.
c. Draw blood to assess albumin every shift.
d. Irrigate the tube at least once a day.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The most important assessment would be to observe the skin around the tube for irritation, redness, and skin breakdown. The skin should be cleaned frequently to keep it free of drainage 
and moisture which can lead to excoriation or other type of skin breakdown. For a client who is undernourished, he or she is usually weighed every day and prealbumin is a more sensitive indicator of over nutritional health. The G-tube is not routinely irrigated.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Undernutrition, Total ente
ral nutrition
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation 

9. A client is receiving total parenteral nutrition (TPN). On assessment, the nurse notes that the clients pulse is 128 beats/min, blood pressure is 98/56 mm Hg, skin is dry, and skin turgor is poor. What action should the nurse perform next? A client is receiving total parenteral nutrition (TPN). On assessment, the nurse notes that the clients pulse is 128 beats/min, blood pressure is 98/56 mm Hg, skin is dry, and skin turgor is poor. What action should the nurse perform next?
a. Assess the 24-hour intake and output.
b. Assess the clients oral cav
ity.
c. Prepare to hang a normal saline bolus.
d. Increase the infusion rate of the TPN.

[ANS : REMOVED]

This client has clinical indicators of dehydration, so the nurse calculates the patients 24-hour intake, output, and fluid balance. This information is then
 reported to the health care provider.
The clients oral cavity assessment may or may not be consistent with dehydration. The nurse may need to give the client a fluid bolus, but not as an independent action. The clients dehydration is most likely due to fluid shifts from the TPN, so increasing the infusion rate 
would make the problem worse, and is not done as an independent action for clients receiving TPN.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process:
Assessment
KEY: Undernutrition, Parenteral nutrition
MSC: Client Needs Category: Ph
ysiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

10. A client who had minimally invasive bypass gastric surgery 2 days ago reports new-onset of severe abdominal pain. What is the nurses best action as this time? A client who had minimally invasive bypass gastric surgery 2 days ago reports new-onset of severe abdominal pain. What is the nurses best action as this time?
a. Listen to the clients bowel sounds.
b. Call the Rapid Response Team.
c. Take the clients vital signs.
d. Contact the primary health c
are provider.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The client may be experiencing either bleeding or anastomosis leak(s). Clients having these complications have severe abdom
inal, back, or shoulder pain, tachycardia, and hypotension.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process:
Analysis
KEY: Obesity, Perioperative care
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care 

11. A client just returned to the surgical unit after an open traditional gastric bypass. What action by the nurse is the priority? A client just returned to the surgical unit after an open traditional gastric bypass. What action by the nurse is the priority?
a. Assess the patients pain.
b. Check the surgical incision.
c. Ensure an adequate airway.
d. Program the morphine pum
p.

[ANS : REMOVED]

All actions are appropriate care measures for this patient; however, airway is always the priority. Bariatric patients tend to have short, thick necks that complicate airway management.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Obesity, Perioperative care
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care 

12. A client is in the bariatric clinic 1 month after having gastric bypass surgery. The client is crying and says I didnt know A client is in the bariatric clinic 1 month after having gastric bypass surgery. The client is crying and says I didnt know
it would be this hard to live like this.? What approach by the
nurse is best?
a. Assess the clients coping and support systems.
b. Inform the client that things will get easier.
c. Re-educate the client on needed dietary changes.
d. Tell the client that lifestyle changes are always hard.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The nurse would assess this patients coping styles and support systems to best provide holistic care. The other options do not address the patien
 ts distress.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Obesity, Coping
MSC: Client Needs Category: Psychosocial Integrity

13. A client has been prescribed lorcaserin. What health teaching about the drug is appropriate for the nurse to provide? A client has been prescribed lorcaserin. What health teaching about the drug is appropriate for the nurse to provide?
a. Increase the fiber and water in your diet to prevent diarrhea.?
b. Report any suicidal thoughts to your primary health care provider?
c. Report dry mouth and dec
reased sweating.?
d. Do not take antibiotics or nay other anti-infective drugs.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Lorcaserin can cause suicidal t
houghts which needs to be reported to the clients primary
health care provider. This drug can also cause dry mouth but not decreased sweating. Loose 
stools are most common with orlistat. Increasing fiber and water would help to prevent constipation, not diarrhea.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Obesity, Drug therapy
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies 14. A client is awaiting bariatric surgery in the morning. Wh
 at action by the nurse is most
important?
a. Answering questions the client has about surgery
b. Beginning venous thromboembolism prophylaxis
c. Informing the client that he or she will be out of bed tomorrow
d. Teaching the client about needed dietary changes

[ANS : REMOVED]

Morbidly obese clients are at high risk of venous thromboembolism and should be started on a regimen to prevent this from occurring as a priority. Answering questions about the surgery is done by the surgeon. Teaching is important, but safety comes first.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Planning and Implementation
KEY: Obesity, Perioperative car
e
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential 
MULTIPLE RESPONSE

1. The nurse understands that undernutrition can occur in hos The nurse understands that undernutrition can occur in hos
 pitalized clients for several reasons.
Which of the following factors are possible reasons for this complication to occur? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Cultural food preferences 
b. Family bringing snacks
c. Increased need for nutrition
d. Need for NPO status
e. Staff shortages

[ANS : REMOVED]

Many factors increase the hospitalized clients risk for nutritional deficits. Cultural food preferences may make hospital food unpalatable. Ill patie
 nts have increased nutritional needs
but may be NPO for testing or treatment, or have a loss of appetite from their illness. Staff shortages impact clients who need to be fed or assisted with meals. The family may bring snacks that are either healthy or unhealthy, so without further information, the nurse cannot 
assume that the snacks are leading to undernutrition.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Undernutrition, Risk factors
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Basic Care and Comfort

2. A nurse has delegated feeding a client to assistive personnel (AP). What action(s) does the  A nurse has delegated feeding a client to assistive personnel (AP). What action(s) does the 
nurse include in the directions to the AP? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Allow 30 minutes for eating so food doesnt get spoiled.
b. Assess the patients mouth while providing premeal oral care.
c. Ensure that warm and cold items stay at appropriate temperatures.
d. Remove bedpans, soiled linens, and other unpleasant items.
e. Sit with the client, making th
e atmosphere more relaxed.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The AP should make sure that food items remain at the appropriate temperatures for maximum palatability. Removi
ng items such as bedpans, urinals, or soiled linens helps make
the atmosphere more conducive to eating. The AP should sit, not stand, next to the client to 
promote a relaxing experience. The client, especially older clients who tend to eat more slowly, should not be rushed. Assessment is done by the nurse.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Communication and Documentation
KEY: Nutritional disorders, Undernutrition
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care 

3. The nurse is assessing a client who has undernutrition. What signs and symptom(s) would the nurse expect? ( Select all that app The nurse is assessing a client who has undernutrition. What signs and symptom(s) would the nurse expect? ( Select all that app
ly. )
a. Alopecia
b. Stomatitis
c. Muscle wasting
d. Peripheral edema
e. Anemia
f. Dry, scaly skin

[ANS : REMOVED]

All of these body changes occur due to nutrient deficienc
 ies associated with low protein, zinc,
Vitamin A, and complex B vitamins.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Undernutrition, Assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation 4. A clients small-bore feeding tube has become occluded after the nurse administered 
medications. What actions by the nurse are appropriate? ( Select all that apply. ) a. Attempt to dissolve the clog by instilling a cola product.
b. Determine if any of the medications come in liquid form.
c. Flush the tube before and after administering medica
 tions.
d. Mix all medications in the formula and use a feeding pump.
e. Try to flush the tube with 30 mL of water and gentle pressure.

[ANS : REMOVED]

If the tube is obstructed, use a 50-mL syringe and gentle pressure to attempt to open the tube.
Cola products should not be used unless water is not effective. To prevent future problems, determine if any of the medications can be dispensed in liquid form and flush the tube with 
water before and after medication administration. Do not mix medications with the formula.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Planning and Imp
 lementation
KEY: Undernutrition, Total enteral nutrition management
MSC: Client Needs Category: Ph
ysiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies

5. When working with older adults to promote good nutrition, what action(s) by the nurse is(are) most appropriate? ( Select all that apply. ) When working with older adults to promote good nutrition, what action(s) by the nurse is(are) most appropriate? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Allow uninterrupted time for eating.
b. Assess dentures (if worn) for appropriate fit.
c. Ensure that the client has glasses on or contacts in when eating.
d. Provide salty or highly spic
y foods that the client can taste.
e. Serve high-calorie, high-protein snacks one to two times a day.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Older adults need unhurried and uni
nterrupted time for eating. Dentures should fit
appropriately and glasses or contacts, if used, should be on. High-calorie, high-protein snacks 
are a good choice. Salty or spicy snacks are not recommended because all adults should limit sodium in their diets and spicy foods may not be tolerated.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Planning and Implementation
KEY: Nutrition, Older adult
MSC: Client Needs Category: Health Promotion and Maintenance
