Chapter 58: Concepts of Care for Patients With Problems of the Thyroid and
Parathyroid Glands
Ignatavicius: Medical-Surgical Nursing, 10th Edition
MULTIPLE CHOICE

1. The nurse is planning health teaching for a client starting on levothyroxine. What health teaching about this drug would the nurse include? The nurse is planning health teaching for a client starting on levothyroxine. What health teaching about this drug would the nurse include?
a. The need to take the drug when the client feels fatigued and weak.
b. The need to report chest pain and dyspnea when starting the drug.
c. The need to check blood pressure and pulse every day.
d. The need to rotate injection sites when giving self the drug.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Levothyroxine is a replacement hormone for clients who have hypothyroidism and is taken 
orally for life. Vital signs do not have to be checked every day, but the client should report any chest pain and dyspnea whe
n first starting the drug.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated
 Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Thyroid disorders, Drug therapy
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies 

2. A nurse assesses a client who is recovering from a subtotal thyroidectomy and observes the development of stridor. What is the priority action for the nurse to take? A nurse assesses a client who is recovering from a subtotal thyroidectomy and observes the development of stridor. What is the priority action for the nurse to take?
a. Apply oxygen via nasal cannula at 2 L/min.
b. Document the finding and assess the client hourly.
c. Place the client in high-Fowler position in the bed.
d. Contact the Rapid Respons
e Team and prepare for intubation.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Stridor on exhalation is a hallmark of respiratory distress, usually caused by obstruction resulting from edema. The nur
se should prepare to assist with emergency intubation or
tracheostomy while notifying the Rapid Response Team. Stridor is an emergency situation; 
therefore, reassuring the client, documenting, and reassessing in an hour do not address the urgency of the situation. Oxygen should be applied, but this action will not keep the airway open.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Thyroid disorder, Perioper
ative nursing
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care 

3. A nurse assesses a client who is recovering from a subtotal thyroidectomy. On the first postoperative day before discharge, the client states, I feel numbness and tingling around my mouth.? What action does the nurse take? A nurse assesses a client who is recovering from a subtotal thyroidectomy. On the first postoperative day before discharge, the client states, I feel numbness and tingling around my mouth.? What action does the nurse take?
a. Offer mouth care.
b. Loosen the dressing.
c. Assess for muscle twitching.
d. Ask the client orientation questions.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Numbness and tingling around the mouth or in the fingers and toes are manifestations of hypocalcemia, which could progress to cause tetany and s
 eizure activity. The nurse would
assess for muscle twitching and, if present, notify the surgeon or Rapid Response Team to give calcium gluconate or other IV calcium replacement. Mouth care, loosening the dressing, and orientation questions do not provide important information to prevent complications of 
low calcium levels.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Thyroid disorder, Perioperative nursing
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential 4. A nurse assesses a client on the medical-surgical unit. Which statement made by the client 
alerts the nurse to assess the patient for hypothyroidism?
a. My sister has thyroid problems.?
b. I seem to feel the heat more than other people.?
c. Food just doesnt taste good without a lot of salt.?
d. I am always tired, even with 12 hours of sleep.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Clients with hypothyroidism usually feel tired or weak despite getting many hours of sleep.
Most thyroid problems are not inherited, although they may occur in families. Heat intolerance is indicative of hyp
erthyroidism. Loss of taste is not a manifestation of
hypothyroidism. The nurse would assess the client further for hypothyroidism.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Thyroid disorder, Assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

5. A nurse cares for a client who presents with bradycardia secondary to hypothyroidism. Which medication does the nurse prepare to administer? A nurse cares for a client who presents with bradycardia secondary to hypothyroidism. Which medication does the nurse prepare to administer?
a. Atropine sulfate
b. Levothyroxine
c. Propranolol
d. Epinephrine

[ANS : REMOVED]

The treatment for bradycardia from hypothyroidism is to treat the hypothyroidism using levothyroxine. If the heart rate were so slow that it became an emergency, then atropine or 
epinephrine might be an option for short-term management. Propranolol is a beta blocker and would be contraindicated for a client with bradycardia.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process:
Planning and Implementation
KEY: Thyroid disorder, Drug therapy
MSC: Client Needs Category: Ph
ysiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies

6. A nurse plans care for a client with hypothyroidism. Whic A nurse plans care for a client with hypothyroidism. Whic
 h priority problem does the nurse
address first for this client?
a. Heat intolerance
b. Body image problems
c. Depression and withdrawal
d. Obesity and water retention

[ANS : REMOVED]

Hypothyroidism causes many problems in psychosocial f
 unctioning. Depression is the most
common reason for seeking medical attention. Memory and attention span may be impaired.
The clients family may have great difficulty accepting and dealing with these changes. The client is often unmotivated to participate in self-care. Lapses in memory and attention require 
the nurse to ensure that the patients environment is safe. Heat intolerance is seen in hyperthyroidism. Body image problems and weight issues do not take priority over mental status and safety.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Analysis
KEY: Thyroid disorder, Assessm
ent
MSC: Client Needs Category: Psychological Integrity

7. A nurse assesses a client who is prescribed levothyroxine for hypothyroidism. Which assessment finding alerts the nurse that drug therapy is effective? A nurse assesses a client who is prescribed levothyroxine for hypothyroidism. Which assessment finding alerts the nurse that drug therapy is effective?
a. Thirst is recognized and fluid intake is appropriate.
b. Weight has been the same for 3 weeks.
c. Total white blood cell count is 6000 cells/mm3 (6 Ã— 109/L).
d. Heart rate is 76 beats/min a
nd regular.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Hypothyroidism decreases body functioning and can result in effects such as bradycardia, confusion, and constipation. If
a clients heart rate is bradycardic while on thyroid hormone
replacement, this is an indicator that the replacement may not be adequate. Conversely, a heart 
rate above 100 beats/min may indicate that the client is receiving too much of the thyroid hormone. Thirst, fluid intake, weight, and white blood cell count do not represent a therapeutic response to this medication.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Evaluation
KEY: Thyroid disorder, Drug the
rapy
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies 

8. A nurse cares for a client who has hypothyroidism as a result of Hashimotothyroiditis. The client asks, How long will I need to take this thyroid medication?? How would the nurse respond? A nurse cares for a client who has hypothyroidism as a result of Hashimotothyroiditis. The client asks, How long will I need to take this thyroid medication?? How would the nurse respond?
a. You will need to take the thyroid medication until the goiter is completely gone.?
b. Thyroiditis is cured with antibiotics. Then you wont need thyroid medication.?
c. Youll need thyroid pills for life because your thyroid wont start working again.?
d. When blood tests indicate normal thyroid function, you c
an stop the medication.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Hashimoto thyroiditis results in a permanent loss of thyroid function. The client will need lifelong thyroid replacement therapy and will not be able
 to stop taking the medication.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Communication and Documentation
KEY: Thyroid disorder, Drug therapy
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies 9. The nurse is caring for a client who is starting on propylthiouracil for hyperthyroidism. What 
statement by the client indicates a need for further teaching?
a. I will let my provider know
if I have weight gain and cold intolerance.?
b. I will let my provider know if I have a metallic taste or stomach upset.?
c. I will avoid crowds and other people who have infec
 tion.?
d. I am aware that if the drug changes the color of my urine, I should stop it.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

If the clients urine turns dark and/or the skin has a yello
 w appearance, the client may have
possible liver toxicity from the drug. This is a serious adverse effect and needs to be reported to the primary health care provider after stopping the drug. If weight gain and cold intolerance occurs, then the client may need a lower dose of the drug. The drug should not cause GI 
distress or a metallic taste in his or her mouth.

10. A nurse plans care for a client with hyperparathyroidism. Which intervention does the nurse include in this clients plan of care? A nurse plans care for a client with hyperparathyroidism. Which intervention does the nurse include in this clients plan of care?
a. Use a lift sheet to assist the client with position changes in bed.
b. Ask the client to ambulate in the hallway twice a day.
c. Provide the client with a soft-bristled toothbrush for oral care.
d. Instruct the assistive personnel to strain the patients urine for stones.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Hyperparathyroidism causes increased resorption of calcium from the bones, increasing the 
risk for pathologic fractures. Using a lift sheet when moving or positioning the client, instead of pulling on the client, reduce
s the risk of bone injury. Hyperparathyroidism can cause
kidney stones, but not every client will need to have urine strained. The priority is preventing injury. Ambulating in the hall and using a soft toothbrush a
 re not specific interventions for
this patient.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Planning and Implementation
KEY: Parathyroid disorder, Safety
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Safety and Infection Control 11. While assessing a client with Graves disease, the nurse notes that the clients temperature has 
risen 1° F (1° C). What does the nurse do first?
a. Turn the lights down and s
hut the patients door.
b. Call for an immediate electrocardiogram (ECG).
c. Calculate the clients apical-radial pulse deficit.
d. Administer a dose of acetaminophen.

[ANS : REMOVED]

A temperature increase of 1° F (5/9° C) may indicate the development of thyroid storm, and the primary health care provider or RRT needs to be notified. But before notifying the provider, the nurse should first take measures to reduce environmental stimuli that increase the risk of cardiac complications. The nurse can then call
 for an ECG. The apical-radial pulse
deficit would not be necessary, and acetaminophen is not needed because the temperature increase is due to thyroid activ
ity.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Planning and Implementation
KEY: Thyroid disorder, Emergency care
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential 
MULTIPLE RESPONSE

1. The nurse is caring for a client who has possible hypothyroidism. What possible risk factors can cause this health problem? ( Select all that apply. ) The nurse is caring for a client who has possible hypothyroidism. What possible risk factors can cause this health problem? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Lithium drug therapy
b. Thyroid cancer
c. Autoimmune thyroid disease
d. Iodine deficiency
e. Laryngitis
f. Pituitary tumors

[ANS : REMOVED]

All of these factors place a clie
nt at risk for hypothyroidism except for laryngitis which is an
inflammation of the larynx.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Assessment
KEY: Thyroid disorders, Risk factors
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

2. A nurse is caring for a client with elevated triiodothyronine and thyroxine, and normal thyroid-stimulating hormone levels. What actions does the nurse take? ( Select all that apply. ) a. Administer levothyroxine. A nurse is caring for a client with elevated triiodothyronine and thyroxine, and normal thyroid-stimulating hormone levels. What actions does the nurse take? ( Select all that apply. ) a. Administer levothyroxine.
b. Administer propranolol.
c. Monitor the apical pulse.
d. Assess for Trousseau sign.
e. Initiate telemetry monitoring.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The clients laboratory findings suggest that the client is experiencing hyperthyroidism. The 
increased metabolic rate can cause an increase in the clients heart rate, and the client should be monitored for the development of dysrhythmias. Placing the client on a telemetry monitor might also be a precaution. Levothyroxine is given for hypothyroidism. Propranolol is a beta blocker often used to lower sympathetic nervous system a
 ctivity in hyperthyroidism.
Trousseau sign is a test for hypocalcemia.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Planning and Implementation
KEY: Thyroid disorder, Diagnostic tests
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

3. A nurse teaches a client with hyperthyroidism. Which dietary modifications should the nurse  A nurse teaches a client with hyperthyroidism. Which dietary modifications should the nurse 
include in this clients health teaching? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Increased carbohydrates
b. Decreased fats
c. Increased calorie intake 
d. Supplemental vitamins
e. Increased proteins

[ANS : REMOVED]

The client is hypermetabolic and has an increased need for carbohydrates, calories, and proteins. Proteins are especially important because the client is at risk for a negative nitrogen balance. There is no need to decrease fat intake or take supplemental vitamins.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Planning and Implementation
KEY: Thyroid disorder, Dietary therapy
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation
