Chapter 62: Concepts of Care for Patients with Kidney Disorders
Ignatavicius: Medical-Surgical Nursing, 10th Edition
MULTIPLE CHOICE

1. A nurse assesses a client with polycystic kidney disease (PKD). Which assessment finding would alert the nurse to immediately contact the primary health care provider? A nurse assesses a client with polycystic kidney disease (PKD). Which assessment finding would alert the nurse to immediately contact the primary health care provider?
a. Flank pain
b. Periorbital edema
c. Bloody and cloudy urine
d. Enlarged abdomen

[ANS : REMOVED]

Periorbital edema would not be a finding related to PKD and would be investigated further.
Flank pain and a distended or enlarged abdomen occur in PKD because the kidneys enlarge 
and displace other organs. Urine can be bloody or cloudy as a result of cyst rupture or infection.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process:
Assessment
KEY: Polycystic kidney disease, Assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Ph
ysiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

2. The nurse is caring for a client who has chronic pyelonephritis. What assessment finding would the nurse expect? The nurse is caring for a client who has chronic pyelonephritis. What assessment finding would the nurse expect?
a. Fever
b. Flank pain
c. Hypertension
d. Nausea and vomiting

[ANS : REMOVED]

The client who has chronic pyelonephritis has renal damage and therefore has hypertension.
The other assessment findings c
ommonly occur in clients with acute pyelonephritis.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Renal disease, Chronic pyelonephritis
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation 

3. After teaching a client with early polycystic kidney disease (PKD) about nutritional therapy, the nurse assesses the clients understanding. Which statement made by the client indicates a correct understanding of the teaching? After teaching a client with early polycystic kidney disease (PKD) about nutritional therapy, the nurse assesses the clients understanding. Which statement made by the client indicates a correct understanding of the teaching?
a. I will take a laxative every night before going to bed.?
b. I must increase my intake of dietary fiber and fluids.?
c. I shall only use salt when I
am cooking my own food.?
d. Ill eat white bread to minimize gastrointestinal gas.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Clients with PKD often have constipation, which can be managed with increased fiber, exercise, and drinking plenty of water. Laxatives would be used cautiously. Clients with PKD
would be on a restricted salt diet, which includes not cooking with salt. White bread has a low-fiber count and would not be included in a high-fiber diet.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Polycystic kidney disease, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Basic Care and Comfort 4. A nurse cares for a middle-age female client with diabetes mellitus who is being treated for 
the third episode of acute pyelonephritis in the past year. The client asks, What can I do to help prevent these infections?? How would the nurse respond?
a. Test your urine daily for the presence of ketone bodies and proteins.?
b. Use tampons rather than sanitary napkins during your menstrual period.?
c. Drink more water and empty your bladder more frequently during the day.?
d. Keep your hemoglobin A
1C under 9% by keeping your blood sugar controlled.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Clients with long-standing diabetes mellitus are at risk for pyelonephritis for many reasons.
Chronically elevated blood gluc
ose levels spill glucose into the urine, changing the pH, and
providing a favorable climate for bacterial growth. The neuropathy associated with diabetes 
reduces bladder tone and reduces the clients sensation of bladder fullness. Thus, even with large amounts of urine, the client voids less frequently, allowing stasis and overgrowth of microorganisms. Increasing fluid intake (specifically water) and voiding frequently prevent stasis and bacterial overgrowth. Testing urine and using t
 ampons will not help prevent
pyelonephritis. A hemoglobin A1C of 9% is too high.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Pyelonephritis, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Health Promotion and Maintenance

5. A nurse evaluates a client with acute glomerulonephritis (GN). Which assessment finding  A nurse evaluates a client with acute glomerulonephritis (GN). Which assessment finding 
would the nurse recognize as a positive response to the prescribed treatment?
a. The client lost 11 lb (5 kg) in the past 10 days.
b. The clients urine specific gravity is 1.048.
c. No blood is observed in the clients urine.
d. The clients blood pressure is 152/88 mm Hg.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Fluid retention is a major feature of acute GN. This weig
 ht loss represents fluid loss,
indicating that the glomeruli are performing the function of filtration. A urine specific gravity of 1.048 is high. Blood is not usually seen in GN, so this finding would be expected. A blood pressure of 152/88 mm Hg is too high; this may indicate kidney damage or fluid overload.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Evaluation
KEY: Glomerulonephritis, Management
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation 

6. After teaching a client with ne After teaching a client with ne
phrotic syndrome and a normal glomerular filtration, the nurse
assesses the clients understanding. Which statement made by the client indicates a correct understanding of the diet therapy for this condition?
a. I must decrease my intake of fat.?
b. I will increase my intake of protein.?
c. A decreased intake of carbohydrates will be required.?
d. An increased intake of vitamin C is necessary.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

In nephrotic syndrome, the renal loss of protein is significant, leading to hypoalbuminemia and edema formation. If glomerular filtration is normal o
 r near normal, increased protein loss
would be matched by increased intake of protein. The client would not need to adjust fat, carbohydrates, or vitamins based on this disorder.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Evaluation
KEY: Nephrotic syndrome, Diet therapy
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Basic Care and Comfort 

7. A nurse assesses a client who is recovering from a radical nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma. The nurse notes that A nurse assesses a client who is recovering from a radical nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma. The nurse notes that
the clients blood pressure has decreased from 134/90 to
100/56 mm Hg and urine output is 20 mL for this past hour. What action would the nurse 
take?
a. Position the client to lay on the surgical incision.
b. Measure the specific gravity of the clients urine.
c. Administer intravenous pain medications.
d. Assess the rate and quality of the clients pulse.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The nurse would first fully assess the client for signs of volume depletion and shock, and then 
notify the primary health care provider. The extensive nature of the surgery and the proximity of the surgery to the adrenal gla
nd put the client at risk for hemorrhage and adrenal
insufficiency. Hypotension is a clinical manifestation associated with both hemorrhage and 
adrenal insufficiency. Hypotension is particularly dangerous for the remaining kidney, which must receive adequate perfusion to function effectively. Repositioning the patient, measuring specific gravity, and administering pain medication would not provide data necessary to make an appropriate clinical decision, nor are they appropriate interventions at this time.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integ
rated Process: Nursing Process: Planning and Implementation
KEY: Renal cancer, Perioperative nursing
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Enviro
 nment: Management of Care

8. The nurse is admitting a client who has acute glomerulonephritis caused by beta streptococcus. What drug therapy would the nurse expect to be prescribed for this client? The nurse is admitting a client who has acute glomerulonephritis caused by beta streptococcus. What drug therapy would the nurse expect to be prescribed for this client?
a. Antihypertensives
b. Antilipidemics
c. Antidepressants
d. Antibiotics

[ANS : REMOVED]

Beta streptococcus is a bacterium that can cause acute glomerulonephritis, so antibiotic therapy is indicated.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Planning and Implementation
KEY: Glomerulonephritis, Drug therapy
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation 9. After teaching a client with hypertension secondary to renal disease, the nurse assesses the clients understanding. Which statement made by the client indicates a need for additional 
teaching?
a. I can prevent more damage
to my kidneys by managing my blood pressure.?
b. If I have increased urination at night, I need to drink less fluid during the day.?
c. I need to see the registered dietitian to discuss limitin
 g my protein intake.?
d. It is important that I take my antihypertensive medications as directed.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

The client should not restrict fluids during the day due to
 increased urination at night. Clients
with renal disease may be prescribed fluid restrictions, and would be assessed thoroughly for potential dehydration. Increased nocturnal voiding can be decreased by consuming fluids earlier in the day. Blood pressure control is needed to slow the progression of renal 
dysfunction. When dietary protein is restricted, refer the client to the registered dietitian nutritionist as needed.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Lear
 ning
KEY: Kidney disorders, Self-management
MSC: Client Needs Category: H
ealth Promotion and Maintenance

10. A nurse cares for a client who has pyelonephritis. The client states, I am embarrassed to talk about my symptoms.? How would the nurse respond? A nurse cares for a client who has pyelonephritis. The client states, I am embarrassed to talk about my symptoms.? How would the nurse respond?
a. I am a professional. Your symptoms will be kept in confidence.?
b. I understand. Elimination is a private topic and shouldnt be discussed.?
c. Take your time. It is okay to use words that are familiar to you.?
d. You seem anxious. Would you l
ike a nurse of the same gender to care for you??

[ANS : REMOVED]

Clients may be uncomfortable discussing issues related to elimination and the genitourinary area. The nurse would encoura
ge the client to use language that is familiar to the client. The
nurse must assess the client and cannot take the time to stop the discussion or find another 
nurse to complete the assessment.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Caring
KEY: Pyelonephritis, Psychosocial response
MSC: Client Needs Category: Psychological Integrity
MULTIPLE RESPONSE

1. A nurse assesses a client who has a family history of polycystic kidney disease (PKD). Which assessment findings would the nurse expect? ( Select all that apply. ) a. Nocturia A nurse assesses a client who has a family history of polycystic kidney disease (PKD). Which assessment findings would the nurse expect? ( Select all that apply. ) a. Nocturia
b. Flank pain
c. Increased abdominal girth
d. Dysuria
e. Hematuria
f. Diarrhea

[ANS : REMOVED]

Clients with PKD experience abdominal distention that manifests as flank pain and increased abdominal girth. Bloody urine is also present with tissue damage secondary to PKD. Clients with PKD often experience constipation, but would not report nocturia or dysuria.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Polycystic kidney disease,
Assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation 

2. A nurse assesses a client with nephrotic syndrome. Which assessment findings would the nurse expect? ( Select all that appl A nurse assesses a client with nephrotic syndrome. Which assessment findings would the nurse expect? ( Select all that appl
y. )
a. Proteinuria
b. Hypoalbuminemia
c. Dehydration
d. Lipiduria
e. Dysuria
f. Costovertebral angle (CVA) tenderness

[ANS : REMOVED]

Nephrotic syndrome is caused by glomerular damage and
 is characterized by proteinuria
(protein level higher than 3.5 g/24 hr), hypoalbuminemia, edema, and lipiduria. Fluid overload leading to edema and hypertension is common with nephrotic syndrome; dehydration does not occur. Dysuria is present with cystitis. CVA tenderness is present with inflammatory changes 
in the kidney.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Nephrotic syndrome, Assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation 3. A nurse assesses a client who is recovering from a nephrostomy. Which assessment findings would alert the nurse to urgently contact the primary hea
 lth care provider? ( Select all that
apply. )
a. Clear drainage
b. Bloody drainage at site 
c. Patient reports headache
d. Foul-smelling drainage
e. Urine draining from site

[ANS : REMOVED]

After a nephrostomy, the nurse
would assess the client for complications and urgently notify
the primary health care provider if drainage decreases or stops, drainage is cloudy or foul 
smelling, the nephrostomy site leaks blood or urine, or the client has back pain. Clear drainage is normal. A headache would be an unrelated finding.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Analysis
KEY: Renal surgery, Perioperative nursing
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential 4. A nurse teaches a client with polycystic kidney disease (
 PKD). Which statements would the
nurse include in this clients discharge teaching? ( Select all that apply. ) a. Take your blood pressure
every morning.?
b. Weigh yourself at the same time each day.?
c. Adjust your diet to prevent diarrhea.?
d. Contact your provider if you have visual disturbances.?
e. Assess your urine for renal stones.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

A client who has PKD would measure and record his or her blood pressure and weight daily, limit salt intake, and adjust dietary selections to prevent c
 onstipation. The client should notify
the primary health care provider if urine smells foul or has blood in it, as these are signs of a urinary tract infection or glomerular injury. The client should also notify the provider if visual disturbances are experienced, as this is a sign of a possible berry aneurysm, which is a 
complication of PKD. Diarrhea and renal stones are not manifestations or complications of PKD; therefore, teaching relate
d to these concepts would be inappropriate.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Lear
 ning
KEY: Polycystic kidney disease, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: H
ealth Promotion and Maintenance

5. The nurse is reviewing the results of a clients urinalysis. The client has a diagnosis of acute glomerulonephritis. Which urine findings would the nurse expect? ( Select all that apply. ) a. Presence of protein The nurse is reviewing the results of a clients urinalysis. The client has a diagnosis of acute glomerulonephritis. Which urine findings would the nurse expect? ( Select all that apply. ) a. Presence of protein
b. Presence of red blood cells
c. Presence of white blood cells
d. Acidic urine
e. Dilute urine

[ANS : REMOVED]

The nurse would expect all of t
hese findings except that the urine is usually concentrated with
a high specific gravity.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Glomerulonephritis, Diagnostic tests
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation 

6. The nurse is assessing a client with acute pyelonephritis. What assessment findings would the nurse expect? ( Select all that apply. ) The nurse is assessing a client with acute pyelonephritis. What assessment findings would the nurse expect? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Fever
b. Chills
c. Tachycardia
d. Tachypnea
e. Flank or back pain
f. Fatigue

[ANS : REMOVED]

All of these assessment findings commonly occur in clients who have acute pyelonephritis because this health problem is a kidney infection.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated
 Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Acute pyelonephritis, Assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Ph
ysiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation
