Chapter 64: Assessment of the Reproductive System
Ignatavicius: Medical-Surgical Nursing, 10th Edition
MULTIPLE CHOICE

1. The nurse is developing a teaching plan for a client who is scheduled for her first Papanicolaou test. What instruction by the nurse is the most accurate? The nurse is developing a teaching plan for a client who is scheduled for her first Papanicolaou test. What instruction by the nurse is the most accurate?
a. The timing of the Pap smear does not matter.?
b. Sexual intercourse will not interfere with the results.?
c. Results can be interpreted immediately in the office.?
d. Results are best if you do not douche 24 hours before the test.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

In order to prevent false interpretation, the client must not douche, use vaginal medications or deodorants, or have sexual intercourse for at least 24 hours before the Pap smear. Timing is 
important, with the test scheduled between the clients menstrual periods so that the menstrual flow does not interfere with lab
oratory analysis. The specimens are placed on a glass slide and
sent to the laboratory for examination and cannot be interpreted immediately.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Reproductive assessment, Cancer screening
MSC: Client Needs Category: Health Promotion and Maintenance

2. The nurse is assessing the reproductive history of a 68-year-old postmenopausal woman. The nurse is assessing the reproductive history of a 68-year-old postmenopausal woman.
Which finding is cause for immediate action by the nurse?
a. Vaginal dryness
b. No Papanicolaou test for 3 years
c. Bleeding from the vagina
d. Leakage of urine

[ANS : REMOVED]

Vaginal bleeding is not norma
l for the postmenopausal woman. Vaginal dryness and leakage
of urine are common findings in adults of this age range. Pap tests may not be needed for 
women over 65 who have had regular cervical cancer testing with normal results.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Reproductive assessment, Older adult
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation 3. The nurse is reviewing discharge instructions with a client who has just experienced an endometrial biopsy. Which finding would be reported to t
 he primary health care provider
immediately?
a. Mild cramping
b. Slight chills and fever
c. Spotting of blood
d. Fatigue after anesthesia

[ANS : REMOVED]

Chills and fever could indicate an infection and would be reported immediately to the primary health care provider . Mild cramping, spotting, and fatigue
 are normal findings after an
endometrial biopsy; however, anesthesia may or may not be used.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Reproductive assessment, Diagnostic testing
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential 4. A client is concerned about her irregular menstrual periods since she has increased her daily 
workouts at the gym to 2 hours each day. What is the nurses best response?
a. Do you want to talk about
the need for that much exercise??
b. Exercise is healthy but can decrease body fat and cause irregular periods.?
c. Bingeing and purging can cause electrolyte problems in your body.?
d. Anorexic behavior can result in decreased estrogen levels.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

There needs to be a certain level of body fat and weight to maintain regular menstrual cycles.
The client has only indicated that she has increased her workouts. There is no indication that she has anorexic or bingeing and purging behaviors. The question about wanting to talk about needing that much exercise sounds judgmental.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integ
rated Process: Communication and Documentation
KEY: Reproductive assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Health Promotion and Maintena
 nce

5. A client is having a hysterosalp A client is having a hysterosalp
ingogram. What action by the nurse is most important?
a. Assist the client in sitting up after the procedure.
b. Provide the client with a pad to avoid dye stains on the clothes.
c. Teach her to take all antibiotics prescribed until finished.
d. Inform the client that the procedure may cause shoulder pain.

[ANS : REMOVED]

During the procedure, the client may experience light-headedness, so the nurse would assist her with sitting up afterwards for safety. The nurse does provide a pad to prevent any staining from the dye and does inform the client of the possibility
 of shoulder pain, but an action to
prevent injury is more important. Antibiotics are not prescribed afterward.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Reproductive assessment, Client safety
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Safety and Infection Control 6. The mother of an 18-year-old girl asks the nurse which screening her daughter would receive 
now based on evidence-based recommendations. Which suggestion by the nurse is best?
a. Papanicolaou test
b. Human papilloma virus (HPV) test
c. Mammogram
d. No screenings at this time

[ANS : REMOVED]

Since the daughter is only 18, it is not recommended that she receive any of these screenings.
Pap screenings are recommended to start at age 21. The H
 PV test is not recommended for
screening but can be used for women who had an abnormal Pap test result. A mammogram is recommended for women aged 40 or older since cancers are more able to be distinguished from normal glandular tissue at that age.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Reproductive issues, Screening
MSC: Client Needs Category: Health Promotion and Maintenance

7. A client is scheduled for a lapa A client is scheduled for a lapa
roscopy to remove endometriosis tissue. Which response by the
client alerts the nurse of the need for further teaching?
a. The surgeon told me that carbon dioxide would be infused into my pelvic cavity.?
b. There will be one or more small incisions in order to visualize all of the organs.?
c. There will be some shoulder pain after the procedure that may last 48 hours.?
d. I can return to jogging my 3-mile (5 km) routine in a few days.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

The client is taught that she should not participate in strenuous activity for a week after the procedure. Carbon dioxide is infused into the pelvic cavity to visualize the organs. There are 
only one or more small incisions with this procedure. The referred shoulder pain that will occur only lasts 48 hours.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Lear
 ning
KEY: Reproductive assessment, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential 

8. A 67-year-old male client had serum laboratory tests performed during his annual examination. The nurse reviews his results, as follows: testosterone: 680 ng/dL (23.6 nmol/L); prostate-specific antigen: 10 ng/mL (10 mcg/L); prolactin: 5 ng/mL (217.4 pmol). What action by the nurse is best?  A 67-year-old male client had serum laboratory tests performed during his annual examination. The nurse reviews his results, as follows: testosterone: 680 ng/dL (23.6 nmol/L); prostate-specific antigen: 10 ng/mL (10 mcg/L); prolactin: 5 ng/mL (217.4 pmol). What action by the nurse is best? 
a. Assess for possible galactorrhea with breast discharge.
b. Note the possibility of a tes
ticular tumor.
c. Communicate that results were normal.
d. Prepare the client for further diagnostic testing.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The prostate-specific antigen is increased from the normal of 0 to 2.5, which could indicate 
benign prostatic hyperplasia or prostate cancer. Further testing would have to be done. The other values are within the normal range for males.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process:
Assessment
KEY: Reproductive assessment, Prostate cancer
MSC: Client Needs Category: Ph
ysiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential

9. A 72-year-old woman is being assessed by the nurse for a A 72-year-old woman is being assessed by the nurse for a
 n annual physical. Which finding is
of concern to the nurse?
a. Thinning of pubic hair
b. Increased size of the uterus
c. Decreased size of the clitoris
d. Loss of tone of the pelvic l
igaments

[ANS : REMOVED]

An increased size of the uterus is an abnormal finding and w
ould be assessed further. Normal
changes in the reproductive system related to aging include the graying and thinning of pubic hair, decreased size of the labia majora and clitoris, and loss of tone and elasticity of the pelvic ligaments and connective tissue. The uterus would normally be decreased, not 
increased, in size due to changes in hormonal levels and atrophy.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Reproductive assessment, Older adult
MSC: Client Needs Category: Health Promotion and Maintenance
MULTIPLE RESPONSE

1. The nurse is assessing a client f The nurse is assessing a client f
or reproductive health problems. What assessments are most
important? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Bleeding
b. Pain
c. Sexual orientation
d. Masses
e. Discharge

[ANS : REMOVED]

Bleeding, pain, masses, and discharge are common health problems that bring a client to a 
primary health care provider. Sexual orientation is not considered a health problem. Sexual activity would be assessed as p
art of the clients history.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated
 Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Reproductive assessment, Nursing assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Ph
ysiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

2. The nurse is reviewing discharge plans with a client who is recovering from a cervical biopsy. The nurse is reviewing discharge plans with a client who is recovering from a cervical biopsy.
Which statements indicate good understanding by the client? ( Select all that apply. ) a. I can return to work this afternoon.?
b. I cannot carry my toddler for 2 weeks.?
c. I cannot douche until the biopsy site is healed.?
d. I need to wait for about 2 w
eeks to have intercourse.?
e. I can use a regular tampon this evening for bleeding.?
f. I cannot wash my perineum for 24 hours.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

The client would not douche, have intercourse, or use tampons until the biopsy site is healed.
The client would rest for 24 hours after the procedure and would not lift heavy objects. The client would be taught to keep the perineum clean and dry by using antiseptic rinses and changes pads frequently.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Reproductive assessment,
Diagnostic testing
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential 
