Chapter 66: Concepts of Care for Patients With Gynecologic Problems
Ignatavicius: Medical-Surgical Nursing, 10th Edition
MULTIPLE CHOICE

1. A nurse is caring for a woman who had hysteroscopic surgery for uterine leiomyomas. On initial assessment, the nurse notes the following: pulse: 114 beats/min, respiratory rate: 20 A nurse is caring for a woman who had hysteroscopic surgery for uterine leiomyomas. On initial assessment, the nurse notes the following: pulse: 114 beats/min, respiratory rate: 20
breaths/minute, crackles in bilateral lung bases. What act
 ion by the nurse takes priority?
a. Assess the client for pain.
b. Call the Rapid Response Team.
c. Obtain an oxygen saturation.
d. Delegate a temperature.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The fluid that is used during this procedure to distend the uterine cavity can be absorbed, 
leading to fluid overload. This client has signs of fluid overload which can be critical. The nurse would notify the Rapid R
esponse Team first, then perform the other actions.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process:
Implementation
KEY: Gynecologic problems, Critical rescue
MSC: Client Needs Category: Saf
e and Effective Care Environment

2. The nurse is educating a client on the prevention of toxic shock syndrome (TSS). Which statement by the client indicates a lack of understanding? The nurse is educating a client on the prevention of toxic shock syndrome (TSS). Which statement by the client indicates a lack of understanding?
a. I need to change my tampon every 8 hours during the day.?
b. At night, I should use a feminine pad rather than a tampon.?
c. If I dont use tampons, I should not get TSS.?
d. It is best if I wash my hands
before inserting the tampon.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Tampons need to be changed every 3 to 6 hours to avoid infection by such organisms as Staphylococcus aureus. All of t
he other responses are correct: use of feminine pads at night,
not using tampons at all, and washing hands before tampon insertion are all strategies to 
prevent TSS.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Gynecologic problems, Toxic shock syndrome, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Health Promotion and Maintenance

3. A client is admitted to the emergency department with toxic shock syndrome. Which action by the nurse is the most important? A client is admitted to the emergency department with toxic shock syndrome. Which action by the nurse is the most important?
a. Administer IV fluids to maintain fluid and electrolyte balance.
b. Remove the tampon as the
source of infection.
c. Collect a blood specimen for culture and sensitivity.
d. Transfuse the client to manage low blood count.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The source of infection should be removed first. All of the other answers are possible 
interventions depending on the clients symptoms and vital signs, but removing the tampon is the priority.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Gynecologic problems, Toxic shock syndrome
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Safety and Infection Control 4. The nurse is caring for a postoperative client following an anterior colporrhaphy. What action 
can be delegated to the assistive personnel (AP)?
a. Reviewing the hematocrit and hemoglobin results
b. Teaching the client to avoid lifting her 4-year-old grandson
c. Assessing the level of pain and any drainage
d. Drawing a shallow hot bath for comfort measures

[ANS : REMOVED]

The AP is able to provide comfort through a bath. The registered nurse would review any 
laboratory results, complete any teaching, and assess pain and discharge.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Gynecologic problems, Delegation
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care 5. A nurse receives hand-off report on four postoperative clients who each had total 
hysterectomies. Which client would the nurse assess first upon initial rounding?
a. Vaginal hysterectomy: two saturated perineal pads in 2 hours
b. Abdominal: temperature of 99° F (37.2° C), blood pressure of 116/74 mm Hg
c. Vaginal: opened incisional edges and moderate bleedi
 ng
d. Abdominal: urinary catheter output of 150 mL in the last 3 hours

[ANS : REMOVED]

Normal vaginal bleeding after a vaginal hysterectomy shoul
 d be less than one saturated
perineal pad in 4 hours. Two saturated pads in such a short time could indicate hemorrhage, which is a priority. The client with the slight temperature elevation needs to be assessed for possible infection, but not as the priority. A vaginal hysterectomy would not result in an 
incision the nurse could observe separating. The urinary output is normal.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Gynecologic problems, Postoperative nursing care
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential 6. A client has undergone a vaginal hysterectomy with a bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. She is concerned about a loss of libido. What intervention by the
 nurse would be best?
a. Suggest increasing vitamins and supplements daily.
b. Discuss the value of a balanced diet and exercise.
c. Reinforce that weight gain may be inevitable.
d. Teach that estrogen cream inserted vaginally may help.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Use of vaginal estrogen cream and gentle dilation can help with vaginal changes and loss of 
libido. Weight gain and masculinization are misperceptions after a vaginal hysterectomy.
Vitamins, supplements, a balan
ced diet, and exercise are helpful for healthy living, but are not
necessarily going to increase libido.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Gynecologic problems, Sexuality
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies 

7. A client has recently been diagnosed with type II endometrial cancer and will be treated with brachytherapy. What statemen A client has recently been diagnosed with type II endometrial cancer and will be treated with brachytherapy. What statemen
t by the client indicates a need for further education on this
treatment?
a. Each treatment will take only 20 to 30 minutes.?
b. I have to be alone in the room during treatment so I dont expose others.?
c. I can get up and walk around or read in a chair during the treatments.?
d. I need to report any heavy vaginal bleeding or sever
 e diarrhea.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Type II endometrial cancer is likely to invade the uterine wall and metastasize. Treatment with brachytherapy is intended to prevent recurrence. Dur
 ing the treatment, which lasts 20 to
30 minutes each, the woman must remain on bedrest to avoid dislodging the radioactive source. The source emits radiation while it is in place, so the woman is in the treatment room by herself. Once it is removed, she has no restrictions on being around others. She would need 
to report any heavy vaginal bleeding or severe diarrhea.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Reproductive problems, Brachytherapy
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

8. The outpatient clinic nurse has assessed a woman who reports a month-long history of feeling full, urinary frequency, and bloating. What action by the The outpatient clinic nurse has assessed a woman who reports a month-long history of feeling full, urinary frequency, and bloating. What action by the
 nurse is best?
a. Obtain a clean catch urine specimen.
b. Instruct the client on a 3-day diet history.
c. Facilitate having a pelvic ultrasound.
d. Teach the woman about CA-125 test.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Evidence shows that women with ovarian cancer often have recognizable, early signs such as 
abdominal bloating, urinary frequency or urgency, feeling full or difficulty eating, and pelvic pain. The nurse should think ova
rian? and facilitate the client having a CA-125 blood test,
which is a cancer antigen test. The other actions may or may not be needed, but with these 
symptoms, the client needs to be evaluated for ovarian cancer.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Gynecologic problems, Ovarian cancer
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential 9. The nurse has educated a community group of risk factors for ovarian cancer. Which statement by a participant shows the need for reviewing
 the information?
a. This is a disease of young women.?
b. Never being pregnant incr
eases my risk.?
c. Difficulty conceiving is a risk factor.?
d. Having endometriosis is one of the risks.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Ovarian cancer usually strikes women who are middle age or older. Nulliparity, difficulty 
conceiving, and endometriosis all increase risk and are correct statements.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Gynecologic problems, Ovarian cancer
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physio
 logical Adaptation

10. A nurse has taken an informed c A nurse has taken an informed c
onsent to a woman who is having a transvaginal repair of a
prolapsed uterus. What client statement indicates a need for more information?
a. The mesh they use may become infected.?
b. I may still need to do my Kegel exercises.?
c. I will watch for any signs of infection.?
d. I know how to use the incentive spirometer.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Mesh is not used in the transvaginal approach as it has been discontinued in this country. The other statements show good understanding.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integ
rated Process: Nursing Process: Evaluation
KEY: Gynecologic problems, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Enviro
 nment: Management of Care

11. A 25-year-old woman is concerned about contracting HPV. What information by the nurse is most appropriate? A 25-year-old woman is concerned about contracting HPV. What information by the nurse is most appropriate?
a. HPV is a benign infection that usually clears up on its own.?
b. You are too old to receive the HPV vaccination.?
c. We can provide HPV testing along with your Pap smear.?
d. HPV is not a common sexually transmitted disease.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

HPV DNA testing can be done at the same time as the pap smear. Most women have HPV
infection during their lives; however, it is not always beni
 gn. Two types, 16 and 18 are
responsible for about 70% of cervical cancers. The vaccination with Gardasil 9 can be given up to age 45.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Gynecologic problems, Cervical cancer
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies 
MULTIPLE RESPONSE

1. A 28-year-old client is diagnosed with uterine leiomyoma and is experiencing severe  A 28-year-old client is diagnosed with uterine leiomyoma and is experiencing severe 
symptoms. Which actions by the nurse are the most appropriate at this time? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Teach nonpharmacologic comfort measures.
b. Discuss the high risk of infertility with this diagnosis
 .
c. Relieve anxiety by relaxation techniques and education.
d. Discuss in detail the side effects of laparoscopic surgery.
e. Review complete blood count for possible iron deficiency anemia.

[ANS : REMOVED]

With uterine leiomyomas or fibroids, heavy bleeding is the predominant symptom, with anxiety occurring because of fears of cancer or infertility
 . Interventions would be directed to
the heavy bleeding and anxiety relief, such as relaxation techniques and education about the pathophysiology and possible treatment of the fibroids. While many women do not experience pain with this condition, some do, so the nurse would teach nonpharmacologic comfort 
measures. The nurse could suggest resources to give more information about the diagnosis.
Discussion of the possibility o
f infertility and side effects of laparoscopic surgery is premature
and may increase the anxiety.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Gynecologic problems, Le
iomyoma
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Basic Care and Comfort

2. The nurse is giving discharge instructions to a client who had a total abdominal hysterectomy with a vaginal repair. Which statements by the client indicate a need for further teaching? The nurse is giving discharge instructions to a client who had a total abdominal hysterectomy with a vaginal repair. Which statements by the client indicate a need for further teaching?
( Select all that apply. )
a. I should not have any problems driving to see my mother, who lives 3 hours
away.?
b. Now that I have time off from work, I can return to my exercise routine next 
week.?
c. My granddaughter weighs 23 lb (10.5 kg) so I need to refrain from picking her up.?
d. I will have to limit the number of times that I climb our stairs at home to fewer 
than five times a day.?
e. I need to refrain from sex
ual intercourse for 4 to 6 weeks.?
f. When I do resume intercourse, I will use a water-based lubricant and go slowly.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Driving and sitting for extende
d periods of time should be avoided until the surgeon gives
permission. For 2 to 6 weeks, exercise participation should also be avoided. All of the other 
responses demonstrate adequate knowledge for discharge. The client should not lift anything heavier than 10 lb (4.5 kg), should limit stair climbing, and should refrain from sexual intercourse. When intercourse is resumed, the client should use water-based lubricant and proceed slowly as the vaginal walls are tighter. This may
 temporarily cause some pain.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integ
rated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Gynecologic problems, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physio
 logical Adaptation

3. The nurse is taking the history of a 24-year-old client diagnosed with cervical cancer. What possible risk factors would the nurse assess? ( Select all that apply. ) The nurse is taking the history of a 24-year-old client diagnosed with cervical cancer. What possible risk factors would the nurse assess? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Smoking
b. Multiple births
c. Poor diet
d. Nulliparity
e. Younger than 18 at first intercourse
f. Infections with HPV

[ANS : REMOVED]

Smoking, multiple births, and infection with HPV are all risk factors for cervical cancer.
Nulliparity is a risk factor for endometrial cancer. Poor d
 iet could lead to decreased immunity,
which is a risk, but is not directly related. Giving birth before the age of 17 is a risk factor.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Cervical cancer, Nursing assessment
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

4. A client is scheduled to start external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) for her endometrial  A client is scheduled to start external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) for her endometrial 
cancer. Which teaching by the nurse is accurate? ( Select all that apply. ) a. You will need to be hospi
talized during this therapy.?
b. Your skin needs to be inspected daily for any breakdown.?
c. It is not wise to stay out in the sun for long periods of time.?
d. The perineal area may become damaged with the radiation.?
e. The technician applies new site markings before each treatment.?
f. You will not be radioactive or pose any danger to anyone else.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

EBRT is usually performed in ambulatory care and does not require hospitalization. The client needs to know to evaluate the skin, especially in the perineal area, for any breakdown, and 
avoid sunbathing. The technician does not apply new site markings, so the client needs to avoid washing off the marking
s that indicate the treatment site.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Lear
 ning
KEY: Endometrial cancer, Radiation therapy, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Safety and Infection Control 

5. The nurse is teaching a client who is undergoing brachytherapy about what to immediately report to her primary health care provider . Which signs and symptoms would be included in this teaching? ( Select all that apply. ) The nurse is teaching a client who is undergoing brachytherapy about what to immediately report to her primary health care provider . Which signs and symptoms would be included in this teaching? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Constipation for 3 days 
b. Temperature of 99° F (37.2° C)
c. Abdominal pain
d. Visible blood in the urine 
e. Heavy vaginal bleeding
f. Urinary retention

[ANS : REMOVED]

Health teaching for a client having brachytherapy would emphasize reporting abdominal pain, visible blood in the urine, and heavy vaginal bleeding. Severe diarrhea (not constipation), urethral burning, extreme fatigue, and a fever over 100° F (37.7° C) would also be reported.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Gynecologic problems, Br
achytherapy, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential 

6. A client has recurrent vulvovaginitis. Which statements by the client indicate a need for further teaching? ( Select all that apply. ) A client has recurrent vulvovaginitis. Which statements by the client indicate a need for further teaching? ( Select all that apply. )
a. I can take a long, hot bath to relieve itching.?
b. I need to take all of my antibiotics as prescribed.?
c. I should avoid having sex unt
il my infection is gone.?
d. I should not douche or use feminine hygiene sprays.?
e. I should use antibacterial soap to clean the area.?
f. I should switch to wearing only cotton underwear.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Clients should avoid hot water baths as they may increase t
 he itching and infection. They may
take warm or tepid sitz baths for 30 minutes several times a day to relieve itching. Clients should cleanse the inner labia mucosa with water, not soap, during a bath or shower. All of the other options are correct.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Gynecologic problems, Comfort measures
MSC: Client Needs Category: Health Promotion and Maintenance

7. The nurse is doing home care t The nurse is doing home care t
eaching for a client who has undergone cryotherapy. Which
statements by the client indicate a correct understanding of the instructions? ( Select all that 
apply. )
a. I can resume my weight-lifting exercise class tomorrow.?
b. I should not use tampons, douche, or have sexual activity.?
c. I should shower rather than take a tub bath.?
d. There may be a lot of bleeding for a few days.?
e. There should be little or no di
scomfort.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Cryotherapy involves freezing of cervical cancer cells and is often painless. Clients are restricted from heavy lifting. T
hey may have a heavy watery discharge for several weeks, but
should report any heavy bleeding, foul-smelling drainage, or a fever. The other options are 
correct.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Gynecologic problems, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation
