Chapter 67: Concepts of Care for Clients With Male Reproductive Problems
Ignatavicius: Medical-Surgical Nursing, 10th Edition
MULTIPLE CHOICE

1. The nurse is conducting a history on a male client to determine the severity of symptoms associated with prostate enlargement. Which finding is cause for prompt action by the nurse? The nurse is conducting a history on a male client to determine the severity of symptoms associated with prostate enlargement. Which finding is cause for prompt action by the nurse?
a. Hematuria
b. Urinary hesitancy
c. Postvoid dribbling
d. Weak urinary stream

[ANS : REMOVED]

Hematuria, especially at the start or end of the urine stream, could indicate infection due to possible urine retention and would cause the nurse to act promptly. Common symptoms of 
benign prostatic hyperplasia are urinary hesitancy, postvoid dribbling, and a weak urinary stream due to the enlarged pros
tate causing bladder outlet obstruction.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process:
Assessment
KEY: Male reproductive problems, BPH
MSC: Client Needs Category: Saf
e and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care

2. A client is diagnosed with benign prostatic hyperplasia and seems sad and irritable. After assessing the clients behavior, which statement by the nurse would be the most appropriate? A client is diagnosed with benign prostatic hyperplasia and seems sad and irritable. After assessing the clients behavior, which statement by the nurse would be the most appropriate?
a. The urine incontinence should not prevent you from socializing.?
b. You seem depressed and should seek more pleasant things to do.?
c. It is common for men at your age to have changes in mood.?
d. Nocturia could cause inte
rruption of your sleep and cause changes in mood.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Frequent visits to the bathroom during the night could cause sleep interruptions and affect the clients mood and mental status
. Telling the client his symptoms should not lead to less
socialization is patronizing. Instructing the client to seek more pleasant things to do also is 
patronizing. Neither statement has any information the client could find useful. The statement about age has no validity and again does not offer useful information.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Communication and Documentation
KEY: Male reproductive problems, Caring
MSC: Client Needs Category: Psychosocial Integrity

3. A nurse is providing education to a new 55-year-old Afric A nurse is providing education to a new 55-year-old Afric
 an-American client about screening
for prostate cancer. What action by the nurse is most appropriate?
a. Inform the client that recomme
ndations vary, so screening is a personal choice.
b. Let the client know that as an African American, he should be screened annually.
c. Teach the client that he is in a high risk group and should discuss screening.
d. Give the client written information that discourages screening until age 70.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Clients in certain high risk groups should discuss screening for prostate cancer with their primary health care providers at age 45. High risk groups
 include African Americans and men
with a first-degree relative who was diagnosed with prostate cancer before the age of 65. This new client will be encouraged to discuss screening even though he is past the age of initial discussion. Recommendations do vary somewhat, but he is in a recognized high risk group.
The nurse would not say that he should? be screened annually. Screening is not
recommended for men over the
age of 70.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Lear
 ning
KEY: Male reproductive problems, Secondary prevention
MSC: Client Needs Category: H
ealth Promotion and Maintenance

4. The nurse is teaching a client with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). What statement indicates the client needs further information? The nurse is teaching a client with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). What statement indicates the client needs further information?
a. There should be no problem with drinking wine with dinner each night.?
b. I am so glad that I weaned myself off of coffee about a year ago.?
c. I need to inform my allergist that I cannot take my normal antihistamine.?
d. My routine of drinking a q
uart (liter) of water first thing in the morning needs to
change.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Caffeine and alcohol have diur
etic effects and so the nurse would teach about avoiding or
limiting their intake. The statement about drinking wine indicates a need for further 
instruction. Antihistamines can cause urinary retention. Clients are taught to avoid drinking large quantities of fluid at one time.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Male reproductive problems, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

5. A client has returned from a transurethral resection of the A client has returned from a transurethral resection of the
 prostate with a continuous bladder
irrigation. Five hours after the operation, the nurse notes the drainage is bright red with clots.
What action should the nurse t
ake first?
a. Review the most recent hemoglobin and hematocrit.
b. Take vital signs and begin immediate irrigation with sterile water.
c. Notify the primary health care provider immediately.
d. Remind the client not to pull on the catheter.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Bright red urinary drainage with clots may indicate arterial bleeding. The nurse would notify the primary health care provider immediately and begin irritating the catheter with sterile normal saline (not sterile water). The nurse can delegate t
 he vital signs. The nurse would
review hemoglobin and hematocrit and would remind the client not to pull on the catheter for all clients with bladder irrigation. But for this client who may be bleeding the nurse would take further action to address the problem.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Male reproductive problems, Continuous bladder irrigation
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential 

6. A new nurse care for several client after radical prostatectomies for prostate cancer. What action by the nurse indicates a need to review care measu A new nurse care for several client after radical prostatectomies for prostate cancer. What action by the nurse indicates a need to review care measu
 res for this type of client?
a. Delegates emptying and recording contents of the drainage devices.
b. Administers a suppository to the client who reports constipation.
c. Removes the sequential compression stockings on ambulatory clients.
d. Discusses long-term complications such as erectile dysfunction.

[ANS : REMOVED]

After a radical prostatectomy, the nurse would not provide a rectal suppository for 
constipation. All rectal treatments are contraindicated. The nurse would delegate emptying and recording drainage, remov
e the sequential pressure devices when clients begin
ambulating, and discuss long-term complications of the operation.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Male reproductive problems, Postoperative nursing care
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential 

7. A client with metastatic prostate cancer has been prescribed leuprolide, a bisphosphonate, and flutamide. Which statement by the client warrants further investigation by the nurse? A client with metastatic prostate cancer has been prescribed leuprolide, a bisphosphonate, and flutamide. Which statement by the client warrants further investigation by the nurse?
a. I go for a short walk each day, even when I am very tired.?
b. My wife has noticed my eyes looking a little yellow.?
c. I ordered some looser shirts
to hide my enlarging breasts.?
d. Now I understand my wifes hot flashes with menopause.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Flutamide is an antiandrogen dr
ug that can cause liver toxicity. The nurse would follow up on
the statement that the clients eyes may be looking a little yellow which could indicate the 
onset of this adverse effect. Leuprolide can cause osteoporosis, hot flashes, and gynecomastia.
The statements regarding weight-bearing exercise, enlarging breasts, and hot flashes are not cause for concern.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Male reproductive problem
s, Hormone therapy
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies 

8. The nurse is providing preoperative education to a client prior to having an orchiectomy for testicular cancer. What statement by the client indicates the need to review the information? The nurse is providing preoperative education to a client prior to having an orchiectomy for testicular cancer. What statement by the client indicates the need to review the information?
a. I can still function sexually without one of my testes.?
b. I will investigate sperm banking before the operation.?
c. There should be no effect on my ability to reproduce.?
d. Testicular self-exam will be important on the remaining testis.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Oligospermia and azoospermia are common in clients with testicular function and can affect reproduction. The statement that there will be no effect on reproduction requires the nurse to review the information with the client. Sperm banking is
 an option prior to treatment to store
sperm for future use. Normal sexual function is possible with one testis. Self-examination of the remaining testis is important for early detection of another tumor.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Evaluation
KEY: Male reproductive problems, Testicular cancer
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation

9. The nurse has provided postvasectomy discharge instruct The nurse has provided postvasectomy discharge instruct
 ions to the client. What statement by
the client demonstrates good understanding?
a. We can have unprotected intercourse as soon as I have healed.?
b. An ice pack to my scrotum will help with the swelling.?
c. I need to report signs of infection, swelling, or bruising right away.?
d. The stitches can be removed here in the office in 7 to 10 days.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

After vasectomy, clients are instructed to use birth control until the 3-month semen analysis shows that the procedure has worked, to use an ice pack intermittently for 24 to 48 hours, that swelling and bruising are normal, and the bandage can be removed in 48 hours. There are no sutures to be removed.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Evaluation
KEY: Male reproductive problems, Vasectomy, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential 10. A client comes to the clinic with concerns about an enlarged left testicle and heaviness in his lower abdomen. Which diagnostic test would the nurse expect to be ordered?
a. Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP)
b. Prostate-specific antigen (P
SA)
c. Serum acid phosphatase (PAP)
d. C-reactive protein (CRP)

[ANS : REMOVED]

These are symptoms of possible testicular cancer. AFP is a tumor marker that is elevated in 
testicular cancer. PSA and PAP testing is used in testing for prostate cancer and its metastasis.
CRP is diagnostic for inflammatory conditions.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Analysis
KEY: Male reproductive problems, Laboratory values
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential 11. A client presents to the emergency department reporting vo
 miting, severe lower abdominal
pain, and a tender mass above one testis. What action by the nurse is most important?
a. Have the client rate pain us
ing the 0-10 scale.
b. Prepare to administer an IV opioid analgesic.
c. Determine when he last ate or drank anything.
d. Assess risk factors for testicular cancer.

[ANS : REMOVED]

This client has signs and symptoms of testicular torsion, which is a surgical emergency. For client safety, the nurse assesses last oral intake. Rating the pain is an important intervention too but is not related to safety. The client cannot have opioids prior to signing a surgical consent. The client does not have signs and symptoms of
 testicular cancer.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integ
rated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Male reproductive problems, Testicular torsion
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduc
 tion of Risk Potential

12. A client returned from a transurethral resection of the prostate 8 hours ago with a continuous bladder irrigation. The client reports headache and dizzin A client returned from a transurethral resection of the prostate 8 hours ago with a continuous bladder irrigation. The client reports headache and dizzin
 ess. What action by the nurse is most
appropriate?
a. Consider starting a blood transfusion.
b. Slow the bladder irrigation down.
c. Report the findings to the surgeon immediately.
d. Take the vital signs every 15 m
inutes.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Headache, dizziness, and shortness of breath are symptoms of possible TURP syndrome in which the irrigation fluid is abs
orbed, putting strain on the clients heart. The nurse notifies
the primary health care provider immediately as the client may need intensive care monitoring. There is no data indicating the client needs a
 blood transfusion, plus that would
add even more fluid in the system. The irrigant may need to be slowed but that is not the first action the nurse would take. Vital signs do need to be taken frequently in this situation, but the nurse notifies the primary health care provider first.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Male reproductive problems, Fluid and electrolyte imbalance
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physio
 logical Adaptation

13. The nurse is teaching an uncircu The nurse is teaching an uncircu
mcised 65-year-old client about self-management of a urinary
catheter in preparation for discharge to his home. What statement indicates the client needs 
more information?
a. I have to wash the outside of the catheter once a day with soap and water.
b. I should take extra time to clean the catheter site by pushing the foreskin back.?
c. The drainage bag needs to be changed at least once a week and as needed.?
d. I should pour a solution of vinegar and water through the tubing and bag.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

The first few inches (centimeters) of the catheter must be
 washed daily starting at the penis
and washing outward with soap and water. The other options are correct for self-management of a urinary catheter in the home
setting.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Male reproductive problems, Catheter management, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential 
MULTIPLE RESPONSE

1. The nurse is teaching a client about side effects and adverse reactions of a PDE5 inhibitor. The nurse is teaching a client about side effects and adverse reactions of a PDE5 inhibitor.
What information does the nurse include? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Refrain from eating citrus fruit within 24 hours of taking the medication.
b. Stop using this drug if your primary health care provider prescribes a nitrate.
c. Do not drink alcohol before having sexual intercours
 e.
d. Muscle cramps, nausea, and vomiting are possible if you take more than 1 pill a day.
e. Take this medication within 30 to 60 minutes of having sexual intercourse.
f. Change positions slowly especially if you also take an anti-hypertensive drug.

[ANS : REMOVED]

A PDE5 inhibitor is used to treat erectile dysfunction. The client should avoid grapefruit or grapefruit juice while taking these drugs. Taking a PDE5 i
 nhibitor along with a nitrate can
cause a profound drop in blood pressure. Alcohol may interfere with the ability to have an erection. Muscle cramps, nausea, and vomiting are possible side effects if more than 1 pill a day are taken. Each medication has its own directions for how soon to take it before 
intercourse, from 15 minutes to 2 hours. Any PDE5 drug can lower blood pressure so the nurse alerts the client of safety
precautions.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated
 Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Male reproductive problems, Medications, Health teaching
MSC: Client Needs Category: Ph
ysiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies

2. A client is interested in learning about the risk factors for prostate cancer. Which factors does the nurse include in the teaching? ( Select all that apply. ) A client is interested in learning about the risk factors for prostate cancer. Which factors does the nurse include in the teaching? ( Select all that apply. )
a. First-degree relative with prostate cancer
b. Smoking
c. Obesity
d. Advanced age
e. Eating too much red meat 
f. Race

[ANS : REMOVED]

Risk factors for prostate cancer include having a first-degree relative with the disease, 
advanced age, and African-American race. Smoking, obesity, and eating too much red meat are not considered risk factors. Research is exploring the relationship with diet.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Male reproductive problems, Prostate cancer
MSC: Client Needs Category: Health Promotion and Maintenance

3. A client came to the clinic with erectile dysfunction. Wh A client came to the clinic with erectile dysfunction. Wh
 at are some possible causes of this
condition that the nurse could discuss with the client during history taking? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Recent prostatectomy
b. Long-term hypertension
c. Diabetes mellitus
d. Hour-long exercise sessions
e. Consumption of beer each night
f. Taking long hot baths

[ANS : REMOVED]

Organic erectile dysfunction can be caused by surgical p
 rocedures, vascular diseases such as
hypertension and its treatment, diabetes mellitus, and alcohol consumption. There is no evidence that exercise or hot baths are related to this problem.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Male reproductive problems, Erectile dysfunction
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation
