Chapter 68: Concepts of Care for Transgender Patients
Ignatavicius: Medical-Surgical Nursing, 10th Edition
MULTIPLE CHOICE

1. A nurse is reviewing the chart of a new client in the family medicine clinic and notes that the client is identified as George Smith.? The nurse enters the room and finds a woman in a skirt. A nurse is reviewing the chart of a new client in the family medicine clinic and notes that the client is identified as George Smith.? The nurse enters the room and finds a woman in a skirt.
What action by the nurse is best?
a. Apologize and declare confusion about the client.
b. Ask Mrs. Smith where her husband is right now.
c. Ask the client about preferred forms of address.
d. Explain that the chart must contain an error.

[ANS : REMOVED]

The nurse may encounter transgender clients whose outward appearance does not match their 
demographic data. In this case, the nurse should greet the client and ask the client to explain his or her preferred forms of addr
ess. Lengthy apologies can often create embarrassment. The
nurse should not assume that the client is not present in the room. The chart may or may not contain errors, but that is not related to determining how t
 he client prefers to be addressed.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Assessment
KEY: Transgender care, Therapeutic communication
MSC: Client Needs Category: Psychosocial Integrity

2. A nurse is providing health teaching to a middle-age male-to-female (MtF) client who has undergone gender-reaffirming surgery. What information is most important to this patient? A nurse is providing health teaching to a middle-age male-to-female (MtF) client who has undergone gender-reaffirming surgery. What information is most important to this patient?
a. Be sure to have an annual prostate examination.?
b. Continue your normal hea
lth screenings.?
c. Try to avoid being around people who are ill.?
d. You should have an annual flu vaccination.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

The MtF client retains the prostate, so annual screening examinations for prostate cancer 
remain important. The other statements are good general health teaching ideas for any patient.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Transgender care, Secondary prevention
MSC: Client Needs Category: Health Promotion and Maintenance

3. A transgender client is taking transdermal estrogen. What assessment finding does the nurse report immediately to the primary health care provider? A transgender client is taking transdermal estrogen. What assessment finding does the nurse report immediately to the primary health care provider?
a. Breast tenderness
b. Headaches
c. Red, swollen calf
d. Swollen ankles

[ANS : REMOVED]

A red, swollen calf could be a sign of a deep-vein thrombosis, a known adverse effect of 
estrogen. The nurse reports this finding immediately. The other signs and symptoms are also side effects of estrogen, but do not need to be reported as a priority.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Communication and Documentation
KEY: Transgender care, Feminizing drug therapy
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies 4. A transgender client taking spironolactone is in the internal medicine clinic reporting heart 
palpitations. What action by the nurse takes priority?
a. Draw blood to test serum potassium.
b. Have the client lie down and rest.
c. Obtain a STAT electrocardiogram (ECG).
d. Take a set of vital signs.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Spironolactone is a potassium-sparing diuretic, and hyperkalemia can cause cardiac 
dysrhythmias. The nurses priority is to obtain an ECG, and then to facilitate a serum potassium level being drawn. H
aving the client lie down and obtaining vital signs are also
important care measures, but are not the most important at this time.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Transgender care, Electrolyte imbalances
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care 

5. The nurse is teaching a transgender client about taking testosterone. What statement by the client indicates good understanding? The nurse is teaching a transgender client about taking testosterone. What statement by the client indicates good understanding?
a. My periods should stop immediately.?
b. Some effects can take up to a year to see.?
c. I am glad I dont have to watch my diet.?
d. There are very few side effects since its a normal hormone.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

Testosterone is used as masculinizing drug therapy. Some desired effects may take up to a year to be noticed. Menses should stop within the first few months of therapy. Testosterone 
increases the risk of heart disease, so clients should follow a heart-healthy diet. Testosterone has several side effects, including acne, seborrhea, weight gain, edema, headaches, and possible psychosis.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Evaluation
KEY: Transgender care, Mascul
inizing drug therapy
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Pharmacological and Parenteral Therapies 

6. A client is preparing for MtF gender“affirming surgery. The client is worried about the voice not sounding feminine enough. What action by the nurse is best? A client is preparing for MtF gender“affirming surgery. The client is worried about the voice not sounding feminine enough. What action by the nurse is best?
a. Ask if the client has considered vocal cord surgery to change the voice.
b. Refer the client for vocal therapy with a speech“language pathologist.
c. Teach the client that there w
ill be no effect on the patients voice.
d. Tell the client that the use of hormones will eventually change the voice.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Male-to-female clients can consult with a speech“language pathologist for vocal training to help with intonation and pitch. While vocal surgery is pos
 sible, it may not be the best first
option due to cost and invasiveness. Telling the client that there will be no change to the voice does not give the client information to address the concern. While the hormones this client is taking will not affect the voice, simply stating that fact does not help the client manage this 
issue.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Communication and Documentation
KEY: Transgender care, Referrals, Communication
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Management of Care 7. A client has returned from the postanesthesia care unit after a vaginoplasty. What comfort 
measure does the nurse provide for this client?
a. Apply ice to the perineum.
b. Elevate the legs on pillows.
c. Position the client on the left side.
d. Raise the head of the bed.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Ice is applied to the perineum intermittently to reduce bruising, pain, and discomfort.
Elevating the legs on pillows is not recommended after a lengthy procedure in the lithotomy position, which predisposes the
client to venous thromboembolism. Positioning the client on
the left side and raising the head of the bed are not comfort measures related to this procedure.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Transgender care, Postoperative nursing care
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Basic Care and Comfort 

8. A client had a vaginoplasty under epidural anesthetic. Which action by the nurse is most important? A client had a vaginoplasty under epidural anesthetic. Which action by the nurse is most important?
a. Ensure that the urinary catheter is securely attached t
 o the leg.
b. Instruct the client not to try to get out of bed unassisted.
c. Monitor the patients dress
ings and wound drainage.
d. Position the Jackson“Pratt drain to the contralateral side.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Epidural anesthesia will cause the client to not be able to move (or feel) the legs for several hours. It is important for client safety that adequate help is available prior to this client trying 
to get out of bed. Securing the catheter to the leg and monitoring dressings and drainage are important for any client after surgery. Positioning the drain to the contralateral side is not needed.
DIF: Applying
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Transgender care, Postoper
ative nursing care, Client safety
MSC: Client Needs Category: Safe and Effective Care Environment: Safety and Infection Control 

9. The nurse is reviewing information about FtM gender“affirming surgical options with a client. The nurse is reviewing information about FtM gender“affirming surgical options with a client.
What statement by the client indicates the need for further information?
a. A penile implant is inserted during the phalloplasty.?
b. Vaginal atrophy can occur and lead to itching.?
c. I will still need cervical ca
ncer screening if I dont have a total hysterectomy.?
d. This surgery will have many psychologic benefits for me.?

[ANS : REMOVED]

The penile implant or prosthes
is is not implanted with the original phalloplasty, but months
later when the original operation has healed. The other statements are accurate regarding gender-affirming surgery.
DIF: Analyzing
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Transgender care, Gender-affirming surgery
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Physiological Adaptation MULTIPLE RESPONSE

1. The nurse is reviewing possible complications from a phalloplasty. What factors does the nurse include? ( Select all that apply. ) The nurse is reviewing possible complications from a phalloplasty. What factors does the nurse include? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Wound infections
b. Urethral complications
c. Rectal injury
d. Bleeding
e. Donor site scarring
f. Recurrent urinary tract infections

[ANS : REMOVED]

Complications from phalloplasty include wound infections, urethral complications, rectal injuries, bleeding, and donor site scarring. Recurrent urinary tract infections are not a typical complication.
DIF: Understanding
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Transgender care, Gender-affirming surgery
MSC: Client Needs Category: Physiological Integrity: Reduction of Risk Potential 

2. A nurse is learning about the health care needs of individuals who identify as LGBTQIA+ and transgender. Which terms are co A nurse is learning about the health care needs of individuals who identify as LGBTQIA+ and transgender. Which terms are co
rrectly defined? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Gender dysphoria distress caused by incongruence between natal sex and gender 
identity.
b. Gender identity a persons inner sense of being a male, a female, or an
alternative gender.
c. Natal sex the sex one is born with or is assigned to a
 t birth.
d. Transgender a person who dresses in the clothing of the opposite sex.
e. Trans-woman a male who i
dentified or lives as a woman.

[ANS : REMOVED]

Gender dysphoria is emotional distress caused by the incongruence between natal sex (sex assigned at birth) and gender ide
ntity. Gender identity is a persons inner sense of being a
male, a female, or an alternative gender Natal sex describes the gender a person is born with 
or is assigned to at birth. Transgender is an adjective that describes individuals who self-identify as the opposite gender or a gender that does not match their natal sex. A trans-woman is a natal male who identifies and/or lives as a woman.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Teaching/Learning
KEY: Transgender care
MSC: Client Needs Category: Psychosocial Integrity

3. A nurse works with many transgender patients. What rou A nurse works with many transgender patients. What rou
 tine monitoring is important for the
nurse to facilitate in this population? ( Select all that apply. )
a. Lipid profile
b. Liver function tests
c. Mammograms if breast tissue is present
d. Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) for natal males
e. Renal profile
f. Cervical cancer screening 

[ANS : REMOVED]

Common routine monitoring for this population includes lipid and liver panels, mammograms if any breast tissue is present, and PSA for natal males as
 the prostate is not removed during a
vaginoplasty/penectomy. Cervical cancer screening is needed if the client has not had a total hysterectomy with a BSO. Renal profiles are not required based on treatment options for this population.
DIF: Remembering
TOP: Integrated Process: Nursing Process: Implementation
KEY: Transgender care, Secondary prevention
MSC: Client Needs Category: Health Promotion and Maintenance
